# SPDX Threats and Controls Team Meeting 2026-01-12

## Attendees
* Alfred Strauch
* Steven Carbno
* Greg Shue
* Victor Lu

## Agenda (please add new topics to the end of the list)
* Approve previous minutes https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pulls
* Define Agenda

## Notes
* Mitre meeting attended by Alfred, Steven, Victor, and Bob from our side.
* Meeting with Mitre was positive
* Shared product information
* Mitre was not aware of SPDX new features.
* Mitre threats very advanced
* SPDX information (SC and Functional design) and use it to enhance mitigation
* Mitre Integrated with Open Cybersecurity Schema Framework
* Automation for threat mitigation
* Both parties agreed to work towards integration
  * Set up a meeting to determine the goals and objectives for integration
  * Suggest setting up bi-weekly meetings on Wednesday, 12 CST.
* Bi-directional mapping - Concepts would be retained
  * SPDX model will be much simpler for threat modeling (links to Mitre)
  * Wrap Mitre requirements for exchange.- avoid low-level details
  * Procedures are involved in risk mitigation - agreed by both parties
  * CRA example risk assessment may be useful in the process, to and from
  * Need to set objectives with alignment for a bi-directional map
* Reviewed the existing model to discuss changes that correspond with Mitre
https://github.com/org-metaeffekt/spdx-meetings/blob/main/threats/2025/2025-12-01-Threat-Modeling-Impact-Assessment.png
* Agent is part of the threat (consistent with Mitre)
* Threat and risk are key elements
  * Risks are a compound element (risk assessment is a requirement)
  * Do risks and threats exist outside a system or product?
  * They suggested that they are part of a product and system.
  * Context relationship
  * Risk category is a higher level - risk is more specific - context
    * Need to finalize definitions - risk, risk category, threat, agent, systems of systems
* Mitre definitions need to be reviewed and synchronized with SPDX
* Join OCSF meetings https://join.slack.com/t/opencybersecu-lz97379/shared_invite/zt-3n3z3fbb7-1yYK2XKXEPjHq8YP8NlEuA

## Decisions
* We need to contact Karsten to see if he can continue
* Will need to synchronize with other ontologies such as Mitre and OCSF

## Actions
* Need to agree upon goals and objects
  * Clarification of our model
* Suggest set up bi-weekly meetings on Wednesday, 12 CST.