# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2026-05-01

## Attendees

- [X] Alfred Strauch
- [X] Steven Carbno
- [X] Bob Martin (MITRE)
- [ ] Dishoung White II
- [ ] Kate Stewart
- [ ] Victor Lu
- [X] Jim Vitrano
- [ ] Amit Kumar
- [X] Issac Asay
- [ ] Lucas Tate
- [ ] Apoorav Trehan
- [ ] Alex Volykin
- [ ] Allan Friedman
- [ ] Cassie Crossley
- [ ] Felix Reichmanna
- [X] Greg Shue
- [ ] Riley Barello-Myers
- [ ] Henk Berkholz
- [ ] Dan Hopkins
- [ ] Courtney Ng
- [ ] Andrew Viater
- [ ] Raymond Sheh
- [ ] Stanislav Pankevich
- [ ] Karen Bennet
- [ ] Marcel Kurzamann
- [ ] Raymond Sheh
- [ ] Michael Pease (NIST Standards)
- [ ] Jenn Power (Red Hat)
- [ ] Arthit Suriyawongkul

# Agenda

- Approve previous minutes  https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/1099/changes approved
- Review PRs - PRs for review  - Waiting for tech Team approval - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1221
- Conformance example1 prelim stakeholders and personas by Gregshue · Needs 2nd approval https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/129
- Continuing discussion related to hardware (USB) and supply chain with system engineering elements.
- Role discussion related to inspection in the context of system engineering.
- What is the role of system engineering related to the development of business cases?
- How do you segment a business case to capture and communicate elements?
- Basic hardware
- Basic supply chain
- Hardware with Role
- Supply chain with Role
- Topic options for today’s meeting:
  - Extend the final product in more detail, based on system engineering processes, with a CRA focus.
  - Model the verification and composition (assembly verification)
  - Model some of the system engineering examples

## Examples

- Basic Software Example
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y6ZxVcCj5exk6cfeq6v1eKP6vz0E95qlcZJDuBvNTZQ/edit?usp=sharing
- Energy Example
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_5bWpx_jF5iN1scrh9cVRmm7WIwALJwrOqIgYV1gaYo/edit?usp=sharing

## Notes

- Discussed PR Conformance
- Held in Reset was unclear
- Comments from Bob
- Discussed turning the Conformance RM into SPDX. -> Needs, roles, and agents
- The needs and roles relationship definition is up in the air
- Project (scope) is required for role relationships (hasRole)
- canProvide as a relationship may be needed - agent role would be used for AI
- Verified the structure in discussion using SysAuditor visually

## Action Items

- Everyone needs to review Brian Knight's feedback with the comments sent out by Alfred and Steven.
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hnzfgeocTkDv5D2MYKJ8Kn2OqKUyrzQKAo1VjcY0WY8/edit?usp=sharing
- We will discuss the comments and solution options next week.
- This document provides many use cases for discussion in future meetings.

## Decision Item

-
