# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2026-06-12

## Attendees

* [x] Alfred Strauch
* [x] Steven Carbno
* [x] Bob Martin (MITRE)
* [ ] Dishoung White II
* [ ] Kate Stewart
* [x] Victor Lu
* [ ] Jim Vitrano
* [ ] Amit Kumar
* [x] Issac Asay
* [ ] Lucas Tate
* [ ] Apoorav Trehan
* [ ] Alex Volykin
* [x] Allan Friedman
* [ ] Cassie Crossley
* [x] Felix Reichmanna
* [ ] Makki Elfatih
* [x] Greg Shue
* [ ] Riley Barello-Myers
* [ ] Henk Berkholz
* [ ] Dan Hopkins
* [ ] Courtney Ng
* [ ] Andrew Viater
* [ ] Raymond Sheh
* [ ] Stanislav Pankevich
* [x] Karen Bennet
* [x] Marcel Kurzamann
* [ ] Raymond Sheh
* [ ] Michael Pease (NIST Standards)
* [ ] Jenn Power (Red Hat)
* [ ] Arthit Suriyawongkul

# Agenda

* Approve previous minutes - https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/1118
* Review the LF CRA Survey
  https://www.linuxfoundation.org/hubfs/Research%20Reports/lfr_2026_cra_awareness_report_060826.pdf?hsLang=en
* CRA Baseline For Manufacturers: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TqYtgG7WkCAQR0cfR4QPH4iqL1iWlEd8/edit?
* IDTA - Digital Twins
  From Marcel: https://industrialdigitaltwin.org/en/content-hub/submodels#bill-of-material
* Continuing discussion related to hardware (USB) and supply chain with system engineering elements. See https://github.com/gregshue/spdx-examples/tree/conformance-example1-prelim-system-reqs
  PR: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/155
* Model out the certificate/root of trust annotations

## Notes

* Minutes approved
* Reviewed approved items
* Reviewed some key points related to LF Survey - mainly the lack of industry awareness of CRA expectations, requirements, and impact.
* HW-SC-CRA is producing a product line example for adherence to CRA regs
* FUSA is focused on system engineering requirements in SPDX
* Conversations related to UML, DT, products
* Example product conversation with Greg:

  * Note sections 1, 2, and 7
  * Note line 124 - product lines other than EU - multiple products
  * USB Dongle feature set - physical constraints
  * How do you measure the idea of “supported”. Not acceptable for requirements and measurements.
  * “Exposed” is more clearly related to a market or any market. Statement for enumeration - objective, stand-alone approvable

    * What and how must be formally expressed
  * Solution domain, ie. cloud services, operating environment, - feature list
  * Categorization of requirements is necessary - note requirements statements in the example - please review and recommend phrasing changes
  * Risk assessment is required - feature list will include the data related to device operations
  * Does the intended use case include a data flow? Yes, but a data flow is not a use case.
  * Risk has 2 parts: risk during design and operations
  * What are the options - how will companies approach the CRA issue? What is being done today? What are the alternatives?

    * Paradigm changes are required.

## Action Items

* canProvide (isQualifiedFor) relationship definition after PR 1221
* Please review the GitHub example to make suggestions and changes: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/155
* Please refer to the GitHub example repository for external individuals, businesses, or organizations to make suggestions

## Decision Item
