# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2026-05-15
PR: 
##Attendees
[ X] Alfred Strauch
[ X] Steven Carbno
[ X] Bob Martin (MITRE)
[ ] Dishoung White II
[ ] Kate Stewart
[ ] Victor Lu
[ X] Jim Vitrano 
[ ] Amit Kumar
[ X] Issac Asay
[ ] Lucas Tate
[ ] Apoorav Trehan 
[ ] Alex Volykin
[ X] Allan Friedman
[ ] Cassie Crossley 
[ X] Felix Reichmanna                                

[ X] Greg Shue 
[ ] Riley Barello-Myers 
[ ] Henk Berkholz
[ ] Dan Hopkins
[ ] Courtney Ng
[ ] Andrew Viater 
[ ] Raymond Sheh 
[ ] Stanislav Pankevich
[ ] Karen Bennet
[ X] Marcel Kurzamann
[ ] Raymond Sheh
[ ] Michael Pease (NIST Standards)
[ ] Jenn Power (Red Hat) 
[ ] Arthit Suriyawongkul




# Agenda 
* Approve previous minutes - ok 
* Review PRs - PRs for review  - Waiting for tech Team approval - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1221 
Conformance example1 prelim stakeholders and personas by Gregshue · Needs 2nd approval https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/146
* canProvide (isQualifiedFor) as a relationship may be needed - agent role would be used for AI, hardware. - agreed these are different relationships
* Brian Knight's feedback - 
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hnzfgeocTkDv5D2MYKJ8Kn2OqKUyrzQKAo1VjcY0WY8/edit?usp=sharing 
* Continuing discussion related to hardware (USB) and supply chain with system engineering elements.

## Notes
* Minutes approved
* Conformance discussion related to stakeholders' needs. Wants PR reviewed.
Presented the issue related to the scope of the product and the nature of product enhancements for a product in the future. 
* Analyze risk according to the consumer
* Stakeholder requirements - change based on changing requirements
* examples need to be created
* Merge of conformance PR was approved in the meeting - post conversation.
* Several other relationships with different elements will need to be covered
*  canProvide vs isQualifiedFor 
* isQualified is an external evaluation 
Present Definition: Agent is qualified for or can provide the `to` Role.
New definition: Agent is qualified to provide the `to` Role.

* canProvide is a claim against an item
New definition: An agent can provide the `to` Role.
* Brian Knight discussion:
* DICE discussion - for “root of trust.”
* representation of items as bundles
* What is a root of trust: standard as a certificate  https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/resource/tcg-platform-certificate-profile/ 
* device identity attestation needs to be stored for immutable attestation
* Device identity and root of trust attestations are both important
* Reviewed the new security work being completed in the security profile related to certificates.
* The root of trust would include a duplication of HW certificate.
	* Source element needs to be defined.
* Can SPDX elements be freely associated? What is the standardized process?
* Do you need to decompose DMTF blob? Use an annotation to reference an external file.
* Assessed elements - can define CVE per-name - may need to include subset artifact (assessedElement). The element may be an HW component.

* Bob presented images related to the supply chain used in a draft paper being created.
	* Discussion illustrated how HW SCs can be represented in SPDX.
* No serial numbers included because this detail was not needed in this illustration related to DPP

## Action Items
* Model out the certificate/root of trust annotations
* Create PR issue related to assessedElement name and the use related to HW

## Decision Item
* 
