# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2026-04-24
##Attendees
[ X] Alfred Strauch
[ X] Steven Carbno
[ X] Bob Martin (MITRE)
[ ] Dishoung White II
[ ] Kate Stewart
[ ] Victor Lu
[ ] Jim Vitrano 
[ ] Amit Kumar
[ ] Issac Asay
[ ] Lucas Tate
[ ] Apoorav Trehan 
[ ] Alex Volykin
[ ] Allan Friedman
[ ] Cassie Crossley 
[ ] Felix Reichmanna                                

[ X] Greg Shue 
[ ] Riley Barello-Myers 
[ ] Henk Berkholz
[ ] Dan Hopkins
[ ] Courtney Ng
[ ] Andrew Viater 
[ ] Raymond Sheh 
[ ] Stanislav Pankevich
[ ] Karen Bennet
[ ] Marcel Kurzamann
[ ] Raymond Sheh
[ ] Michael Pease (NIST Standards)
[ ] Jenn Power (Red Hat) 
[ ] Arthit Suriyawongkul




# Agenda 
* Approve previous minutes (Note: the LF tool for putting meeting minutes into github did not run.) 
* Review PRs - PRs for review - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1221 
Conformance example1 prelim stakeholders and personas by Gregshue · Needs 2nd approval https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/129 

* Role discussion related to inspection in the context of system engineering. 
What is the role of system engineering related to the development of business cases?
How do you segment a business case to capture and communicate elements?
* Basic hardware
* Basic supply chain
* Hardware with Role
* Supply chain with Role
Continuing discussion related to hardware (USB) and supply chain with system engineering elements.

Examples
* Basic Software Example
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y6ZxVcCj5exk6cfeq6v1eKP6vz0E95qlcZJDuBvNTZQ/edit?usp=sharing
* Energy Example
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_5bWpx_jF5iN1scrh9cVRmm7WIwALJwrOqIgYV1gaYo/edit?usp=sharing 


## Notes
* Issues related to old links for AI meeting and the new meeting need to be addressed at the Tech Meeting
* Minutes posting did not run and needs to be addressed
* Conformance PR needs approval. What is the conformance product needs to be discussed?
* Discussion related to the issue of business case example:
* Profiles have need other profiles to solve problems or business cases
* Need to drive development through connections
* Core elements are fundamental to the cross use of profiles.
* Software profile was created then added core. As more base elements and new profiles were added it changed the approach. - Bob commented
* What is the business case - is it a financial case vs technical case? Willingness to fund based on business need. 
* Is it a project vs business case. Business case can be an internal issue (Greg) - sharing knowledge - functional business case on a technical level (Bob) May be called a “Use Case”. Request for Quote (RFQ) system requirements to capture technical requirements - agreed to components. 
* Need example of how to use SPDX - how to use the SPDX features.
System engineering is the framework for brining together these requirements
* Need to be able speak simply related to individual profiles. Simple scenarios need to addressed.
* Role example continuation from last week.
* Started as a hardware discussion example and a validation of cross profile validations.
* TestAction - how does test action tie into the bigger picture - a file will exist for validation - non digital file - external reference, IRI, picture, etc
* Do we need to provide a Test output - assessment needs to be included (functional safety), 
* Verification is required for requirements - expression of a requirement- verifiedby relationship - Who performs testaction - agent- organization or independent group
* Contained in USB specification

* How will this information be provided to CRA - test results etc
* How will CRA evaluate the information provided? Require internal diagrams to ensure conformance(?) 
* The SPDX information will need to be included in CRA submission.
* What is the scope of the documentation? Risk hazard assesment-technical? Later stage development of CRA elements can use the SPDX graph as part of submission.
* Supply chain provenance - origins - shipping, storage and transportation

## Action Items
* AI meeting link out of date
* Minutes updating process
## Decision Item
* system engineering elements are included in even simple examples. 
* will system engineering be included in core - ??
* Is sys eng a separate profile - a constraint engine
