# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2026-05-22

## Attendees

- [X] Alfred Strauch
- [X] Steven Carbno
- [X] Bob Martin (MITRE)
- [ ] Dishoung White II
- [ ] Kate Stewart
- [X] Victor Lu
- [ ] Jim Vitrano
- [ ] Amit Kumar
- [ ] Issac Asay
- [ ] Lucas Tate
- [ ] Apoorav Trehan
- [ ] Alex Volykin
- [X] Allan Friedman
- [ ] Cassie Crossley
- [ ] Felix Reichmanna
- [X] Makki Elfatih
- [X] Greg Shue
- [ ] Riley Barello-Myers
- [ ] Henk Berkholz
- [ ] Dan Hopkins
- [ ] Courtney Ng
- [ ] Andrew Viater
- [ ] Raymond Sheh
- [ ] Stanislav Pankevich
- [ ] Karen Bennet
- [ ] Marcel Kurzamann
- [ ] Raymond Sheh
- [ ] Michael Pease (NIST Standards)
- [ ] Jenn Power (Red Hat)
- [ ] Arthit Suriyawongkul

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes - https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/1107
- Version Issue - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1265 Use generic version property in `/Core/DefinedProcess`, `/Hardware/Hardware`, `/Hardware/ProductSpecification`, `/Software/Package`
- Review PRs - PRs for review - Waiting for Tech Team approval - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1221
- Conformance example1 prelim soi sample stubs stk usrs prd mgr by Gregshue - Needs approval - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/151/changes
- Brian Knight's feedback - Continue at Operational Design Domain Declaration - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hnzfgeocTkDv5D2MYKJ8Kn2OqKUyrzQKAo1VjcY0WY8/edit?usp=sharing
- Continuing discussion related to hardware (USB) and supply chain with system engineering elements.

## Notes

- Minutes approved.
- Conversation related to the present and future definition and use of BOMs.
- Discussed characteristics of SPDX and CDX.
- Relationship of metadata, systems engineering, and system operations represents a future conversation.
- Conformance PR:
  - Needs are specific to the role or stakeholder.
  - Needs can become a requirement.
  - Use X has a "Need" that requires definition. Discussed engineering student example.
  - Reviewed specific elements related to needs in PR in example repos.
- Labeling issues arise.
- How do you organize all the roles and responsibilities? How do you locate information?
- Key statement: Is SPDX valid for the definition of simple and complex use cases?
- Conformance example is the method for defining the use of SPDX, and what examples work for CRA compliance?
- Need to refine focus on product example with specific examples - USB dongle - hardware interface connections.

## Action Items

- Model out the certificate/root of trust annotations.
- Create PR issue related to assessedElement name and the use related to HW.
- Define `canProvide` (`isQualifiedFor`) relationship after PR 1221.

## Decision Items

- No decision items recorded.
```
