# SPDX General Meeting Minutes: 2025-06-05

## Attendees:
- Alfred Strauch
- Alin Jerpelea
- Brad Goldring
- Ilan Schifter
- Jesse Porter
- Jilayne Lovejoy
- Karen Bennet
- Kate Stewart
- Marcel Kruzmann
- Michael Cameron
- Phil Odence, Black Duck
- Ria Farrell Schalnat (HPE)
- Rose Judge
- Steven Carbno
- Troy Sabin
- Troy Sabin
- Victor Lu

## Technical Team Report 
### Core & Software
- Harmonizing hardware and tech for 3.1 release
- ISO cover letter in circulation
- Seeing more tools adopting 3.0
- Business discussions around business operations vs other types of operations
- Will look into re-energizing the usage profile

### Security
- Security work will resume 11am PST on Tuesdays

### Licensing
- Trying to start a joint call with licensing and core to resolve some issues (targeting July)

### Build
- Because of some of the abstraction, there may be future implications with build. We won’t remove anything there but might put a more general concept in adding something at a higher level than the build profile.

### Lite
- Haven’t started 3.1 yet

### AI / Dataset
- Working through the fields that are proposed for 3.1 with the intent of coming to the Tech call in a few weeks to go through that list.
- Discussed list of metadata that US government organizations are considering capturing
- OpenChain AI SBOM meeting - working on a [management guide for supply chain](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XHztgMALwnu2D02bmWYyXeW3wE_Jw199/edit#heading=h.x3i92tls8mld) - Review on document happening until June 25th - discussion happening at OSS NA
- SPDX AI talks have been given to this group
- Being asked to give talks to other open source communities (in particular OASIS) \- starting to define data provenance on a detailed level.
- [AI BOM Whitepaper](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/hubfs/LF%20Research/lfr_spdx_aibom_102524a.pdf?hsLang=en)
- If there’s a visual example, Ilan can add to Dots tool
  - Here's a simple dataset [example](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/tree/master/dataset/example01). Let me know if this is good enough. I can't find Art's example at the moment

### Functional Safety
- Continuing to work through the classes for 3.1. Have mostly deconflicted with Hardware profile at this point.
- Meetings will pick up once Nicole is back from vacation

### Canonicalization/Serialization
- No udpates

### Software as a Service
- Has been merged - done for 3.1
- Some wording changes requested so PR will becoming up.

### Hardware
- Discussion on digital location and external ID requirement and dealing with ownership responsibility (enhancement on the idea of ownership).

### Tooling and Implementers
- No updates
   
### Legal Team Report – Jilayne/Steve
- Some issues with the publisher so we haven’t released 3.27 yet.
- Looking for help to update the FAQ page

### Outreach/Website Team Report – Alexios/Bob
- In the midst of rescheduling the calls that works for everyone.
- For ISO: We need an explanatory report that justifies how we meet some of their criteria - we need to update some of the public pages on the SPDX website to reflect SPDX 3.0

## General Announcements
- New steering committee memebers: Ilan Schifter and Mahshid Izady-Vahedy

### Next Meeting
- August 7, 2025 (Will skip July meeting due to holiday)
