# SPDX AI Team Meeting 2023-09-06

## Attendees
* Kate Stewart
* Gopi
* Karen 
* Jim Hutchison
* Jay White
* Andreas Felhlner (ONNX Standard / CMF / Trusted AI)
* Aditi Sharma (Dell Technologies)
* Sarah Evans (Dell Technologies)
* Iam Palatnik (Dell Technologies)

## Agenda
* Jay's update
* Karen - Tesla Autopilot Model

## Notes
* Change of license discussion for Discussion
   * What is best practice - date stamping an SBOM as of usage. 
   * What does it mean for datasets for right to be forgotten.   
   * Ability to index into file and part of file.
   
* Jay's update
  * AI/ML is now incubating working group under OpenSSF.
  * Room to scope better what it is - tied to AI profile for SBOMs
  * May tie directly to scope;  potential collaboration opportunity.
  * Project management aspect; draw in on document creation, for support.
  * Would like to see this group work on use cases,  and then apply SPDX,  being applied on supply chain integrity.
  * Next week - landscape of what/where;   telemetry document;   use case examples.    
  * Formally embedded with Alejandro's meeting - helped to secure buy in.   Build scope for what do here. 
  * Worth getting someone to come teach SPDX 3.0?  Yes - Karen volunteers.

* Sarah update
  * Open Datasets/Model - when think about as a subset of open source software, which is why OpenSSF is interested, to open data sets - what breaks.    
  * Datasets on how to use,  SBOM, Lawyers, Security team - do our processes support the controls that are needed for internal processes.   Use Case of SPDX.   Industry Whitepapers and learning,  overlap with Security and AI.   How different is it to secure dependencies with AI.
  * Karen:  consider Monitoring and Analyzing after
  * OpenSSF AIML meeting link: https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97349085860?password=3d2b70af-6d20-4b45-ac5b-de4e99e964ae The may be changing the meeting time but currently it is every weeks Wed 11-12 eastern.    Agenda: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jMIYg-VQUjdev2UL5yCcBXncpy6BtZa_zBjYEpxIjcs/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs

* Tesla Autopilot - Incident Database 
   * Set of vulnerabilities associated with pilot,  where should we be capturing this. 
   * SHould we consider capturing "lawsuits" as part of the vulnerabilites.
   * Lot of information being hidden.   Versions coming out with car manufacturing terminal.
   * Don't tell what is going to be fixed in it -...
   * Planning to sell model to other car manufacturers.   SBOM opportunity.
   * "status" of compliance to "standards"
   * Karen to write a blog on this, with the issues,  and see if we can get it on LF blog
   * NTHSC - find a contact and reach out, and seeing input.

* Andreas noted that there was possiblity for collaboration with some of the work that ONNX is working on.  
   * https://wiki.lfaidata.foundation/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=7733341
   * https://wiki.lfaidata.foundation/display/DL/Trusted+AI+Committee
   
* Aditi - not sure what tooling can do to support AI products.
   * Open source module in these data models.
   * Looking for binary as well as open source;  and identifying a lot of tools out 
