## General Upates

Jack requests we walk through the website / wiki next time

Kate wants to start a draft of SPDX 2.0 documentation

Kate mentions that the UNO folks felt need for a reviewer comment at
every level (e.g. File Level, not just the Doc level)

## Modeling

Next steps would be to do an instance diagram.

Kate suggests use case of Time 1.7 upstream getting consumed by Ubuntu
who applies patches to it.
<http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/t/time/>

## Items for discussion about the updated model

Document Relationship: the 'downstream' Document includes the
relationship, and propose it carries the SHA-1 hash of the document it
refers to. And optionally the digitally signed hash...

Specifier: let's get concrete about this...

Gary thinks Specifier is a pair of a URI plus some sort of checksum that
can be used to validate what the URI refers to.

SPDXDoc can't have a Specifier inside itself. But SPDXElements /
SPDXPackage / could reference a specifier.

Bill points out that [Ed's Adopted
Proposal](Technical_Team/Proposals/2012-06-06/Detached_Signed_SPDX_Files "wikilink")
indicates influence of Maven guys who do similar.

Perhaps our Spec / Best Practices can point to how we recommend people
publish their public keys...

<https://docs.sonatype.org/display/Repository/How+To+Generate+PGP+Signatures+With+Maven>

Here's an excerpt from that post talking about digital signatures:

''Distribute Your Public Key

Since other people need your public key to verify your files, you have
to distribute your public key to a key server:

`   $ gpg --keyserver hkp://pool.sks-keyservers.net --send-keys C6EED57A`

Here I distributed my public key to hkp://pool.sks-keyservers.net, use
--keyserver along with a key server address, and use --send-keys along
with a keyid. You can get your keyid by listing the public keys.

Note

Public keys are synced among key servers, but it may take a while.

Now other people can import your public key from the key server to their
local machines:

`   $ gpg --keyserver hkp://pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys C6EED57A`

''

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
