## **Agenda for Technical Team meeting at Linux Collab 4/16**

### Participants

  - Gary O'Neall (Source Auditor)
  - Jack Manbeck (TI)
  - Kate Stewart (Linaro)
  - Dennis Clark (NexB)
  - Kirsten Newcomer (Blackduck)
  - Liang Cao (UNO)
  - Martin Michelmayer (HP)
  - Daniel German (UVic)
  - Norman Glaude (protecode)
  - Beth "Pidge" Flanagan (intel/yocto)
  - Michael Neuling (NexB)
  - Daniel Coley (Juniper)
  - Brandon (Cisco)

### Agenda

  - Best Practices/Usage of SPEC document
      - get to outline and see who's interest in participaing in filling
        it in.
  - SPDX 2.0 planning
      - Review straw man model - Gary
      - Instance diagram review? - Jack/Bill
      - Distribution of packages use case
          - will straw man handle? - cross check with Yocto
          - reasonable abstraction of elements - consistent
      - Other key use cases want to cross check?

## Minutes

### Reviewed Proposed Merged model.

  - Current model:
    <http://wiki.spdx.org/index.php/File:Model-4-16-2013.png>
  - Decision to merge Document and Element.
  - Decision to consider Document, Package, File, Snippet as sub classes
    of Elements.
  - Snippets: byte ranges as sub class of Element. Multiple elements,
    overlap range.
      - Not required, but permit and support, as sub case of elements.
      - File is 0..\#(EOF byte).
      - snippet is **only** valid if it has a relationship to a file.
        "is part of".

### SPDX Element

  - relationship: see Relationship Enumeration (w/Verification code of
    other element)
  - usage : see Element Usage Enumeration
  - license: see Licence classe
  - verification code
  - comment (by creator) 0:1
  - annotation (by reviewer) 0:\* - text, property of reviewer
  - sub classes:
      - Document:
      - Package:
      - File:
      - Snippet:

### Reviewer

  - property of a Document.
  - comments are reflected as annotation

### Relationship Enumeration

  - "is part of"
  - "contains"
  - "generated from"
  - "generates"
  - "is same as" -- snippet discussion
  - "modifies"
  - "modified by"
  - "revision of" -- may want to evolove reviewer, document, code,
    auditor, intent of modifier....

?? how represent a revision of an SPDX file? provenance, adjustments??
derived from.

### Element Usage Enumeration

  - source
  - executable
  - dynamic library
  - static library
  - data files (image, audio, visuals, etc.)
  - test (data, frameworks)
  - build tools
  - documentation (man, README, SPDX, DEP5, etc.)
  - reference implementation
  - 
**WORKFLOW** is a 3.1 issue.
