# SPDX Serilization Meeting 2024-03-21

## Attendees
- Joshua Watt
- Gary O'Neall
- Sean Barnum
- Norio Kobota
- Victor Lu

## Agenda
- Continuing the discussion from the tech call on how we specify the handling of IDs for the serialized format (pull request 662).

## Notes
- Review of prior decisions
- Agreed to:
    - To avoid re-opening old issues unless absolutely needed, below is a list of previous decisions on the handling of ID based on reviewing the notes (primarily based on the meeting minutes from 2023-07-21, 2023-08-01, 2023-08-08, 2023-8-10):
  - At a model/deserialized level every class will have a globally unique IRI  ID.  This includes both Element and non-Element classes (e.g. CreationInfo, Hash).
  - Elements are required to have an ID which is a URI that can be shared across serializations (Note: Sean may not have agreed to this decision). It was agreed that ALL objects (Element and non-Element) are required at a model/deserialized level to have an ID which is a URI that can be shared across serializations
  - Serializations are allowed to use anonymous ID’s / blank nodes (e.g. they can inline the checksum class in JSON-LD) for non-Element classes however, when deserializing they must be made unique within the internal model representation (e.g. Skolomized).
  - CreationInfo will use anonymous / blank node ID’s in JSON-LD as the compaction approach
- Issue relates the SPDX ID being in the markdown
- Proposal from Sean - remove the SPDX ID from the markdown
- Alternative proposal from Sean - add SPDX ID on all items
- Proposal from Joshua - Add a qualifier to the markdown
- Agree the Element IDs are different and we need to somehow capture that information
- How do we capture this information in the spec?
- Joshua - it is helpful to have the SPDX ID / Element ID in the documentation
- Are we aliasing @ID to spdxId?
- Kobota-san As a user, we uses the .spdx TagValue format until v2.3, and the internal representation often uses the JSON format.  The spdxId is recognized as a unique ID in a document scope, and it is described in various places as equivalent to a unique ID in other documents, such as NTIA. Therefore, if the name of spdxId is changed, it will be a little confusing for user like us. 
- Sean proposed we have the same markdown file, but have a separate section
- Sean raised issue of possible breaking changes this late in the 3.0 release process
- Proposal - add annotation to the class that denotes the type of ID
- TODO: See if we can generate SHACL that restricts the nodeKind for the class
- Joshua will push recent updates to the playground that implements the SPDX ID property proposal
- Summary - narrowed down to solutions where we update the markdown to denote the treatment of IDs.  There are two proposed approaches:
    -  add a field to the spdxId property as represented in pull request 662
    - add a different annotation to the class markdown file (e.g. Element) to denote the ID restrictions
- In either of the approaches, the specParser will need to generate the restrictions in the SHACL file (using nodeKind) which will carry forward in the JSON schema generation and in the end user documentation
