# SPDX AI Team Meeting 2025-07-23

## Attendees

- Alfred Strauch
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Bob Martin (MITRE)
- Elyas Rashno
- Gopi Krishnan Rajbahadur
- Karen Bennet (ISO)
- Kate Stewart
- Matt Rutkowski (IBM, LF AI & Data)
- Steven Carbno
- Victor Lu

## Agenda

- Approve previous minutes
- Prioritise agenda
- General announcements
- Gopi / Elyas: Prioritized list of SPDX 3.1
  - Release Candidate urgent request
  - Any planned additional fields asap
- Gopi / Elyas: Update on SBOM Prototype tool
  - How is validation going?
- Gopi Presentation on MCP ecosystem analysis <https://www.arxiv.org/pdf/2506.13538>
- Round Table
  - Any other business / updates

## Notes

- Create PR for addition Boolean (deprecated)
- Asking about agent parameters: LLM parameters as different from Agent parameters
- Matt's Agent definition
  - Model in specified footprint; Agent is wrapping that allows it to be put into a framework. Parameterization in standard way.
- Parameters are important for model signing and agent trust.
- Gopi: AI agent is able to model tools; web search, multiple decisions via jury, parameters should be captured in AI profile. What parameters of an agent itself?
- Signing considerations
  - Zero trust, sign with parameters that are passed to it. Discussion landed on how we should look at a different way of signing parameters values.
- Which parts are appropriate to BOM? How much should be defined? How much is outside? Recommendation: parameters passed to agent (build / config fields, Matt expressed that is slightly different from a config) Ability to audit the parameters send to agent.
- What about multimodal models to be expressed in config type information
- Parameters of the model are not necessarily parameters the agent exposes.
- Kate flagged we have `hasDataFile` in 3.0 already that we can reuse:
  - “The `from` Element treats each `t`o Element as a data file. A data file is an artifact that stores data required or optional for the `from` Element's functionality. A data file can be a database file, an index file, a log file, an AI model file, a calibration data file, a temporary file, a backup file, and more. For AI training dataset, test dataset, test artifact, configuration data, build input data, and build output data, please consider using the more specific relationship types: `trainedOn`, `testedOn`, `hasTest`, `configures`, `hasInput`, and `hasOutput`, respectively. This relationship does not imply dependency.”
- Art points out that current description: `autonomyType` needs to change for agents i.e. if the system is fully automated or a human is involved in any of the decisions of the AI system.” Or better redesign this. See: <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/900> (`PresenceType` is for data field presence/absence, and not human presence/absence)
- Discussion of signage \- may need different modalities? Logging, identity of submitter, etc. SCITT, C2PA, Sigstore, … How different signage happen. What is the best way to capture the most common methods? OpenSSF paths? Transparency log and token verification? Location frameworks signing vs external transparency log.
- TODO: get a list from Jay & Mihai
  - different types of agent signage. Karen.
- How to store signing, may be a core property, if we're going to adopt. AI agent is no different from component signing, Analogous. Figure out what we need to capture to convey the signing.
- Victor: posted <https://identity.foundation/keri/did\_methods/>; <https://www.trustoverip.org/blog/2023/01/05/the-toip-trust-spanning-protocol/>
- SBOM Everywhere
  - tasked with signing
  - kick off with NYU
- Art posted: Agent is a running instance. While software is more of a static artifact (package)? There can be many agent instances from one agent package?
- A webservice vs agent ..if we forget AI is there, are they really that different
- Add an additional relationship - Model and Agent
- Agent Intent — `intendedUsed` description is currently specific to dataset. (“A free-form text that describes what the given dataset should be used for.”) Need to update the description <https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0.1/model/Dataset/Properties/intendedUse/>
- New: Winning the Race: American's AI Action Plan (July 2025) <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf>
- Continue review of proposed 3.1 release: new fields. Please review and identify any gaps <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10MjBnckEce44EzWrzIFy6NcJaAjfvEXffxghgh0gLUo/edit?usp=sharing>

## Outstanding Action Items

- Gopi to create a block diagram (get link of the whiteboard document)
- Art to create enumeration for `AutonomyLevel` (to replace `autonomyType`)
  - PR: <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1064>
- SPDX AI/Dataset new presentation to communicate awareness in diff communities
- Is anyone attending the CWE categories (has an AI Working Group) and they would love our feedback. The plan is to create a list of new CWE. <cwe@mitre.org> <https://cwe.mitre.org/community/working\_groups.html>
- Blog? OWASP related
- Blog? on Summit / SPDX and Salsa?
- Blog? SPDX and TAIBOM
- LF Summit Japan submission : August 3
- See more at <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q2a2HAV_ipbPhV6pqWWqzxYjBaTKtIW7H_CfAFF0kek/edit?tab=t.owf5s32iw48p>
