# SPDX AI Team Meeting 2025-02-19

## Attendees

- Ambarish Gurjar
- Elyas Rashno
- Karen Bennet
- Kate Stewart
- Robert Martin
- Victor Lu

## Agenda

- Approve meeting minutes since November 2024 - Karen todo
- Thank you Gopi, who submitted two abstracts for Linux NA Summit
- Round Table discussions

## Notes

- Bob gave (2) presentations on SPDX AI/Data Profile to private variety of government and industry
  - Slides to be provided
  - They want to 'talk' more about SPDX, AI and Dataset
  - Bob to bring in any asks into future meetings
- Cross walks first step to linking the all the different metadata
- Next Tuesday (Tech 3.1 plans to be discussed)
  - Interoperable Semantic Web base, cleaning up fields (AI/Data and Core)
  - ISO release (est 6 months)
  - OMG/SPDX releases are together going forward
- Victor proposed using SPDX in Science MLCommons group
- Victor posted a few links of interest
  - <https://content.iospress.com/articles/semantic-web/sw233156>
  - The “SKOS Concept Scheme” contains a representation of all the models’ concepts in a hierarchical way.
  - The “Class Diagram” provides an overview diagram of the model.
  - The “JSON-LD” representation of the model.
  - The “JSON Schema” view of the classes and properties of the model.
  - The “FeatureType” representation that uses the ISO-19109 meta-model.
  - The “OWL” representation that contains all profile-specific statements and all the statements from the imported vocabularies needed for a self-contained model.
  - The “SHACL” representation contains a set of constraints describing the profiled classes in the model. ....
  – “DCAT-QB” – a profile of DCAT aligned to the RDF Datacube (QB) vocabulary allowing QB descriptions of the structure of datasets.
  - "DCAT-PROV" a profile of DCAT aligned to the Provenance (PROV-O) vocabulary allowing descriptions of the provenance of dataset
  - DCMI 2022- Panel: The Cross Domain Interoperability Framework
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bL7BVi9FzbQ>
- Ambarish mentioned that they are releasing a chatbot (est: Feb 21) SPDX
- Karen mentioned OpenAI 'new' benchmark - SWE-Lancer Benchmark
  <https://winbuzzer.com/2025/02/19/openais-swe-lancer-benchmark-reveals-where-coding-freelancers-still-have-an-edge-xcxwbn/>
- PROV-O: The PROV Ontology is this related to SLSA?

## Next Week's Agenda

- Elyas: SLSA Deep dive
  - Invite Mihai and Arnaud Le Hors for feedback
