## SPDX AI Team Meeting 2025-09-17

### Attendees

* Alfred Strauch
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Elyas Rashno
* Gopi Krishnan Rajbahadur
* Karen Bennet (ISO)
* Raymond Sheh
* Steven Carbno
* Victor Lu

### Agenda (please add new topics to the end of the list)

1. Approve previous minutes: [https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pulls](https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pulls)
2. Prioritise agenda
3. General announcements (Any?)
4. Diagram discussion: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1080#issuecomment-3250615684](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1080#issuecomment-3250615684)

   * Diagram of another proposal idea for an AI agent / prompt. Any concerns/issues?
   * AIAgent as a subclass of an existing SoftwareAgent
   * Prompt as a subclass of an existing DatasetPackage
   * RAG as a subclass of an existing SoftwareArtifact
5. EU Training Dataset Template: any further comments?

   * SPDX - EU AI Training Content Summary Template
6. NIST draft minimal set of fields (“formal”)

   * Draft for comments due 3 October
   * Main Resource Page
   * 2025 Minimum Elements PDF
   * SBOM Framing Document
   * SPDX SBOM Minimal Set comments
   * OpenSSF Minimal Set SBOM Comments: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Nc2BGmXAloy60eEKsE9b0im2agk-jTCA3C64SErJN2Q/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.8usyrwwk2q22](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Nc2BGmXAloy60eEKsE9b0im2agk-jTCA3C64SErJN2Q/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.8usyrwwk2q22)
7. SPDX 3.1 update

   * Gopi gave presentation at SPDX Tech yesterday; approval received to continue PRs for Prompting and AI Agent
   * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1093](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1093)
   * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1091](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1091)
8. AOB: Round table

   * Any other business / updates

### Notes

* Steven presented the proposal direction:

  * AIAgent as a subclass of an existing SoftwareAgent
  * Prompt as a subclass of an existing DatasetPackage
  * RAG as a subclass of an existing SoftwareArtifact
* Discussion noted a potential need to “work out a running agent” representation.
* Gopi raised concerns about Prompt as a subclass of existing DatasetPackage, suggesting it may be better aligned under AI (or otherwise reclassified). Steven referenced prior tech call context and pulling from Data Package.
* Art noted possible scaling/metadata issues if many prompts exist per system, and questioned whether Prompt aligns with “Package” semantics. Art suggested a smaller construct than DatasetPackage might be needed (Prompt as a subclass of “file” was mentioned as an option), though Gopi/Steven noted this could introduce complexity.
* Art: bundling prompts together is doable.
* Elyas: foundation prompts are part of AIPackage.
* Identified next steps:

  * Split AI Agents into running vs non-running.
  * Review all relationships via examples.
  * Tie RAG and AIPackage together (determine whether two constructs are needed).
  * Review other fields captured in Elyas’s spreadsheet.
* Art asked whether an “order” concept is needed (Prompt A before Prompt B, etc.).
* Reference shared by Art: [https://github.com/OpenChain-Project/Telco-WG/blob/main/OpenChain-Telco-SBOM-Guide_EN.md](https://github.com/OpenChain-Project/Telco-WG/blob/main/OpenChain-Telco-SBOM-Guide_EN.md)
