## Attendees

  - Kim Weins
  - Pierre Lapointe
  - Phil Odence
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Mark Gisi
  - Kate Stewart
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Steve Cropper

## Agenda

  - Beta Updates
  - Web Site Review
  - Update on spec

## Minutes

  - Beta Sites
      - Antelink - OpenLogic - OpenLogic is producing files. On track to
        finish end of June.
          - Will test one with embedded SPDX and one without
      - WindRiver - HP - Got the tooling to work (some questions re
        error messages). Sent the file over and HP was able to review
        for first package (30 files). Now going to do zlib. Then will do
        BusyBox and OpenSSL.
          - Some confusion about fitting things in the SPDX package
            licenses field (declared and concluded licenses for the
            package). It's hard to say that there is a single license at
            the package level. Mark thinks that declared license is what
            people "view" the package as.
          - According to Kate --at package licenses
              - Declared - what the project says (like in the Copying
                file)
              - All Licenses in Files -- Laundry list of any license
                detected in file
              - Concluded -- what the analyzer concludes - can have ands
                and ors
          - Clearly there is still a lot of confusion about these
            license fields at the package level.
          - Kate -asked everybody to read the latest spec to see if it
            is clear.
          - Steve Cropper: They like to be able to look at root supplier
            and latest supplier for the code
          - Tool issues -- are there installability issues? Gary needs
            to find out more about what Wind River issues are. Wind
            River had to get someone involved to set up environment.
            Gary thinks the tools aren't installable enough to be
            broadly used. Maybe we can set it up on a web site? Kim
            pointed out that this could require some security
            requirements.
      - Motorola - TI
          - Behind plan. Gary hasn't gotten any logistical data and not
            sure what is happening, but there is some activity with the
            tools.
  - Update on spec 20110605 -- new draft of spec up on website -- needs
    review.
  - Web site redesign
      - Not much more done yet because team has been busy. Sandbox is
        set up with Drupal. Team is meeting next week.
  - Yocto Project
      - Mark talked to the project
      - They are building kernel + a bunch of packages (100s
      - They are interested because they are part of the family
      - They are not in a position to generate content
      - But they could take SPDX files associated with the packages used
        and incorporate it into the build and deliver it with the build.
      - Kim: Would it be valuable to be able to aggregate the individual
        SPDX files together.
      - They are looking for us to have content and then they can work
        with us.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
