## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Pierre Lapointe, nexB
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Scott Lamons, HP
  - Phil Koltun, Linux Foundation
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Steve Cropper, Cisco
  - Kim Weins on vacation, so Phil Odence held court

## Press Release

  - various people trying to get quotes; contact person with Kim out is
    Jen Cloer from Linux Foundation

<!-- end list -->

  - no update on quotes from people on call

<!-- end list -->

  - see email from Kim on 7/27 (went direct to people who were going to
    get quotes)

## FAQs

different people have different sections: need to have done by time
press release goes out

  - Kim, Mark, Kate not on call for update
  - Jilayne (license) - no progress on license questions yet
  - Gary, Kirsten (tools) - no progress yet

## Website

  - update from Kirsten: web team meeting and updating sandbox, not
    finished yet, want folks to start taking a look at sandbox (with
    understanding that it's a work in progress)
  - link for comments in the sandbox on Blogs & Discussions page and
    "Web Site Refresh Forum" link on left side - add comments there; if
    you have privilege, you can also edit pages for content
  - sandbox.spdx.org

<!-- end list -->

  - see initials of people who are in charge of various sections on site
    (KN = Kirsten; PL = Pierre; SDC = Steve)
  - Steve added link to forum for feedback on main page for comments, to
    make that easier to find
  - Kirsten, Pierre, and Steve will pull over content from old site, but
    will also need working groups to add some content
  - Added calendar modules and other new features that will require new
    content
  - Navigation box will be added
  - Link to mind map still there if you want reference (but this link
    will go away eventually)

## LinuxCon Vancouver

  - **Birds of a Feather session** - probably more for informing new
    people than real working session, only 1 hour. Very few people from
    technical team attending event, so not enough time to real working
    session.
  - **Booth participation** - have a booth space, Kim putting together
    signage. Need people to staff booth to talk to new people. Booth
    area open full-time throughout conference, important to have it
    staffed at breaks/meals in particular. John Ellis sent out an email
    to coordinate this - if you can help out, respond to John's email

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
