## Attendees

  - Scott Lamons
  - Phil Odence
  - Mark Gisi
  - Pierre Lapointe
  - Gary O Neall
  - Kim Weins

## Agenda

  - Web site
  - Community outreach
  - 2012 Goals

## Web site

  - Pierre reported that sandbox for new site was up as of yesterday
  - Pierre and Steve will work to rebuild the structure -- goal to
    finish is Dec 16th
  - We need help to move content over and create content
  - Schedule (tentative pending Pierre and Steve)
      - Dec 16 - Sandbox strcuture completed (Pierre and Steve)
      - Dec 19-Jan 6 Content moved over to sandbox
      - Jan 9 - Cutover to new site
  - Content needed (per the mindmap)
      - We want to assign different people for different part of
        website. I will create a different doc in Web Refresh section to
        track volunteers and responsibilities.

## Community outreach

  - We believe that we are close to finalizing the new data license as
    CC0 (with a preamble)
  - Need to get an update from Michael Herzog on the pitch deck for
    communities
  - Once both of those are done, we can proceed to setting up meetings

## 2012 Goals

  - We are starting a process of putting together 2012 Goals for SPDX.
    Each team is creating goals which we will then roll up.
  - Kim created a first pass on goals, and we got feedback and inpiut.
    The draft of Business Team goals (with feedback) are below

<!-- end list -->

  - Goals for 2012
      - Build out website and necessary content
          - Rollout new website – Q1
          - Infrastructure that’s reliable and recoverable
          - Build additional content as needed
          - Build out metrics – visitors, tool downloads,
      - Outreach to communities
          - Goal: At least 1 major community announcing support
      - Outreach to companies
          - Goal: At least 10 companies adopting SPDX as a standard
      - Implement a License Add process for repo
          - Implement a workflow process for license
  - Tradeshows to Consider
      - LF
          - Android Builder/Embedded – Feb CA
          - Collab Summit – Apr CA
          - Enterprise Summit – May NY
          - LinuxCon Japan – Jun Yokohama
          - LinuxCon NA – Aug San Diego
          - LinuxCon Europe – Nov Barcelona
      - Others?
          - DebConf Jul 2012 Nicaragua
          - OSCON – Jul Portland --
          - ApacheCOn – Nov - Scott Lamons willing to speak
          - EclipseCon – Mar DC
          - FUDCon – Jan VA
      - Share the abstract with others
  - Budget Items
      - Website – Hosting
      - Web Design/Development
      - Tradeshows – LF – will LF subsidize?
      - Tradeshows – Other?

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
