## Attendees

  - Kim Weins
  - Kirsten Newcome
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Phil Koltun
  - Kamal Hassin
  - Scott Lamons
  - Rockett

## Agenda

  - Beta Updates
  - Web Site Review
  - Launch process and activities

## Minutes

  - Beta Sites
      - Antelink - OpenLogic
          - OpenLogic has produced SPDX and Antelink is parsing those
            files
          - Will have formal feedback and report next week
      - Motorola - TI
          - Working on pursuing the exchange between Motorola and TI.
      - WindRiver - HP
          - Got the time package a week or two ago
              - Biggest issue was per file copyright info
              - Field is required but some people might not have data -
                could be manual effort
              - Maybe the copyright field shouldn't be required
          - Just got zlib - 200+ files - Scott is converting that to ss
              - Mark and Scott to review
          - Going to do a BusyBox package next
      - Kim to create a place where we can hold Beta feedback
      - Shoot for Jul 7 as "beta feedback" during normal business
        meeting - Kim to alert other teams
  - Web Site Redesign
      - Meeting last week
      - Used FreeMind to outline flow
      - Two different proposals created
      - Need to merge those -- schedule for next week (Wed)
      - Then Review that proposal with larger group at extended bus team
        meeting on Jul 7
  - Launch
      - Kim is reaching out to LF to talk about PR and Launch
      - Press release -- we will want quotes from community, beta site,
        LF, (maybe Eben?)
      - Reviewed punch list for 1.0 Launch
          - Beta review - Jul 7
          - PR/Launch plan
          - Press release development and quotes
          - Community outreach
          - Web site refresh - structure and content
          - FAQs/Docs
          - Launch presos

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
