## Attendees

  - Scott Lamons (host)
  - Michael Herzog
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Gary ONeall
  - Steve Cropper
  - Ibrahim Hahdad
  - Karmir

## Topics

Governance discussion -- can we continue to make progress with the
volunteer based model or is a more active coorporate membership (fee
based) model required in order to make progress on development,
outreach, and adoption of the standard???

Adoption -- do we need to focus on a particular audience (e.g. corporate
users or developers) or can we target both at the same time.

Do we really understand all the barriers to adoption?

Some of this was captured at the SPDX Summit hosted by Cisco after the
Collaboration Summit.

Talked about doing a survery targetting open source projects, corporate
users, and end-users to undercover the barriers to adoption. (Jack
volunteered to work on this)

Add a feedback link to the website (e.g. feedback@spdx.org)

Use the Tuesday Linuxcon meeting to gather input from potential adopters

## Added by Ibrahim

  - The volunteer based model worked well to get SPDX to 1.x. Going
    forward there is a need to have a different model. This will be
    covered by the governance model proposal I am targeting for the F2F
    ([planning in
    progress](General_Meeting/Planning_for_Face_to_Face_meeting_in_September-October_2012 "wikilink"))
  - Having a clear project governance and roadmap will help with
    recruitment activities. Other items that will also help include: web
    site, additional presence of SPDX in various events, outreach to
    specific/targeted open source communities and getting open source
    developers feedback, providing SPDX content in the form of practical
    papers - tutorial style, doing more than 1 F2F (for all of SPDX WG)
    and inviting target companies to attend a 0.5 day of educational
    track on SPDX, generating SPDX for small open source projects to be
    used as examples and case studies, etc.
  - The WG need to consider creating content that we can publish on the
    improved web site, which can include providing guidance to SPDX
    users (open source developers, open source maintainer, general users
    of open source software, corporate developers, etc). The content can
    cover how they can use SPDX in their specific role for instance.
    How-to style documentation.
  - Creating a program to on-board new members into SPDX will be very
    helpful. Assume we have a new company X that decided to join the
    SPDX WG. Is there a way to get them up to date on what is going on
    and to identify areas they can contribute? This is what I mean by
    on-boarding. It can include documentation, seminar offered over a
    call or better face to face (esp if SPDX existing members are close
    by to new company), a document that identifies how to participate,
    etc.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
