## Attendees

  - Kim Weins
  - Chuck Gaudreau
  - Pierre Lapointe
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Steve Cropper
  - Scott Lamons
  - Mark Gisi

## Agenda

  - Web Site Content Cutover
  - EclipseCon BOF
  - Software Supply Chain Summit - Date and Place
  - Next Steps - License List process
  - Web Resources
  - SPDX 2.0 compatibility
  - Enterprise Adoption issues

## Notes

  - Eclipse Con BOF
      - March 28 7pm
      - In DC area
      - On the schedule and organized
      - So far, Mashad and Guillaume will be there
      - How can it be promoted? - Kim to ask LF if they can promote in
        their newletter
  - Web site
      - Instructions went out
      - Discussed the various types of page and what type to use in
        various cicrumstances
      - Should our mailing lists all be forums? We had a question about
        whether a forum would force us to log back in to respond to an
        email. That could be a bit of a pain.
      - We could also think about using forums for the FAQ

<!-- end list -->

  - Software Supply Chain Summit
      - This would be a 1 day meeting in person with people involved in
        the software supply chain to discuss SPDX and OSS compliance in
        the supply chain
          - Cisco is willing to host at their facilities in San Jose
          - Need to figure out how many people - 30-40
          - 
      - Agenda
          - Goals
              - Should be more education (101)
              - How to get on board & provide feedback
          - State of OSS Compliance Today
          - Intro to SPDX
          - Presentations by end users (at least 2, or a panel)
          - License List
          - Tools
          - What's going on with the spec now
          - Getting involved
          - Discussion
      - Who should we target to company?
          - Maybe 30-40 attendees
          - End user companies
          - Supply chain/Procurement people working with software for
            3rd parties and vendors, Legal people, open source
            compliance people or OSRB, part of R\&D team in similar
            orgs. Want some smaller software suppliers.
      - Targeting Friday April 6 (day after LF COllab Summit) - Steve to
        check on date and if we can get a room
      - Will need a lunch,breakfast and maybe networking snack
      - Spread the word to the tech team
  - License List Process
      - Volunteers? Possibly Gary & Jilayne

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
