## Attendees

  - Jack Manbeck (host)
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Pierre Lapointe
  - Michael Herzog
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Steve Cropper
  - Ibrahim Haddad
  - Adam Coehn

## Agenda

  - Press Release for 1.1
  - Outreach Activities
  - Web site

## Press Release for 1.1

This is still being formulated so there was no real discussion on this
item.

## Outreach Activities (Fossology, Open Compliance program, Other?)

Talked with Ibrahim from the Linux Foundation. Ibrahim has been
attending all the working group meetings and talking with members and
non members about SPDX. He has a number of recommendations that he would
like to maker within the next few weeks (perhaps around the time of
LinuxCon). One of his proposals will be on governance for SPDX.

Ibrahim brought up that there will be an Open Compliance Summit by the
LF in Tokyo Japan October 24 and 25. It would be good for members from
SPDX to attend and possibly even give some talks. We should let him
know.

## Web update

The site was switched over to the new format. Instead of waking through
the pages with the business team, Jack volunteered to take a look at
them and make sure everything looks okay.

There was some discussion about the Roster page for the business team.
There was general agreement that an active membership roster even at the
SPDX level would be extremely useful. Jack brought up the technical team
suggestion of having a self subscribing page. General consensus was that
was a good way to do it and we would let the technical team take the
lead on setting something up and then re-using it. Steve mentioned there
may be a drupal widget to do something like this and would check with
Martin.

Jilayne mentioned that she thought the License List should be on the
website Documentation Dropdown given its significance.

Ibrahim brought up that we should use SPDX email names on the website
instead of personal ones (because people move on, etc).

There was discussion about the website Ibrahim posted in his comments
email giving feedback on the new SPDX website. The team felt that having
a more professional site like that would be a good thing and that it was
difficult to achieve with just volunteers who are also not web
developers. Ibrahim mention that they had contracted that work out and
would get a quote to do something similar for SPDX. Steve will work with
him on that. How to fund it is still TBD but the team felt getting a
quote or general idea would still be a useful first step.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
