## Attendees

  - Jack Manbeck
  - Mrk Gisis
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Phil Odence

## Agenda / Notes

We discussed 2013 Priorities for the business team. It was proposed to
concentrate on the following:

1.  Gathering input on SPDX
2.  Creation of white papers/guidelines on Consuming and Producing SPDX
    license information.

## Gathering Input on SPDX

It was discussed that we do get feedback on SPDX but have never
collected it and turned it into actionable requirements in some cases
(e.g. data collected from sessions held at the LF Compliance Summit,
etc). It would be good for the business team to become the focal point
for collecting this type of feedback, cataloguing it and then passing it
on to the appropriate teams to look into. The thinking is that the
information would be from anonymous sources (unless otherwise stated).
Potential sources of information could be surveys, feedback sessions
held at conferences and so forth. It would not be information collected
in team meetings. We need an owner to take on cataloguing the
information. Gary and Phil volunteered to set up a survey. The thinking
is that we could disseminate the survey at the Collaboration Summit
(Jack volunteered to make up business size cards to hand out), talk to
the LF about disseminating to members and other possible avenues.

## Creation of Whitepapers

We discussed the creation of a consumers and producers guide to SPDX.
Seems these are sorely missing and would help people better understand
SPDX. They could start as white papers and then evolve. It was also
discussed whether an umbrella document on the benefits of SPDX to sit
over those would be helpful as well. Seems like it. Mark Gisi was going
to check on whether he could contribute something to that. Need to find
owners for the consumer and producers guide to get them written.

## Other Business

In addition to discussing the priorities we talked about having an
Educational class on SPDX at the collaboration summit. Mark Gisi took an
action to look into creation of a session. Would be slotted for 4:30 on
Tuesday at the Summit and a chance for people to come in and learn about
SPDX and/or share information on experiences.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
