## Attendees

  - Jack Manbeck
  - Scott Lamons
  - Micheal Herzog
  - Pierre Lapointe
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Phil Odence

## Agenda / Notes

1.  Finalize Roadmap. Current copy for 2013 is here:
    [Business\_Team/Roadmap](Business_Team/Roadmap "wikilink")
2.  Talk about first meeting in April at LF Collab Summit in April
3.  Talk about Windriver and UNO SPDX work
4.  Priorities for the year
5.  Other Business

There were no significant comments on the roadmap (there were minor
editorial ones) and it was finliazed. Phil converted the roadmap theme
to the one used by SPDX. Jack will post on the wiki and remove the other
drafts. Jack will also create a link tot he roadmap from the main web
site page. Phil will announce the roadmap at the next general meeting.

There was discussion concerning the meeting at LF Collab Summit in
April. Scott will start interface with the LF to secure space. At a
minimu we would like room for en entire day on Wedensday. Basivc agenda
would be intro to spdx and geenral meeting int he morning with the
afternoon left open for team meetings. Tech team may need more time and
Jack to check with Kate on that. We also talked about presentations. It
would be good to co-ordinate them. Thought was to do them on tools and
ocmbione Garys presnettaion he submitted last year wih work that UNO and
Windriver are doing. Jack to contact Gary. WE feel this would fit wth
our theme of adoption for this year.

We talked about the tools both Windriver and UNOP have developed for
generating SPDX documents. Jack also mentioned that UNO was lookign at
deloping an "SPDX dashboard". This would be a consumer tool for
analyzing SPDX documents. No details on that yet. Jack to talk with Matt
Germonprez at UNO about disccuing this work at a general meeting. Team
briefly discussed on hwo to captilize on this for SPDX. Thought was to
have the tooling be a talk at the LF Collab Summit and to put links on
the website. Micheal also mentioned that NexB was looking at a way to
descrive licensing in soiftware using meta data. We may propose to SPDX.
Jack aso mentioend that he was working on source level meta data as a
proposal to SPDX as a counterpart to what Ed had proposed for bianries.
He will propose to the Technical team.

Priorities for the year were deferred to next meeting.

There was no other business.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
