## Attendees

  - Jack Manbeck
  - Scott Lamons
  - Pierre Lapointe
  - Mark Gisi
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Matt Germonprez
  - Mikael Söderberg
  - Phil Odence
  - Micheal Herzog
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Kate Stewart

## Agenda

1.  Approve Previous Minutes - All
2.  Update on the search for new co-chair for the Business Team – Jack
3.  Update on SPDX Track at the Collab Summit and nailing down an Agenda
    – Jack
4.  SPDX 2.0 requirements Document and getting it through the Tech
    Report Process – Kirsten and Mark
5.  Update on posting old license lists to the SPDX web site – Jack
6.  Other Business

## Notes

  - Micheal has been collaborating with Matt and Gary to get a
    submission for Googles Summer of Code for SPDX. Discussed whether we
    should have SPDX as a mentor organization or use the Linux
    Foundation which is already one. Deadline to submit for a new mentor
    organization is tomorrow. After discussion it seemed to make more
    sense to leverage the LF. Phil was going to put Micheal in touch
    with the right people within the LF so we could get SPDX into the
    mix. The idea is to have students work on open source SPDX tooling
    for SPDX and/or the UNO SPDX projects.

  

  - We spent some time discussing a possible agenda for the upcoming
    Linux Collab Summit. Jack stated that three talks related to SPDX
    had been submitted and approved. It was agreed to do the talks on
    Thursday. Kate suggested doing a BOF at the end of the day for
    people using SPDX. Fridays would be devoted to team meetings for
    Legal and Technical. Mark will give an overview of the Tech report
    Framework but thought he only needed 30 minutes. Jack will pull the
    schedule together and submit it to the LF.

  

  - 2.0 Requirements
      - Document is approved by the Business Team. Kirsten to run it by
        the Tech team one more time and then we will publish it. It was
        also decided to use consistent language when talking about how
        one SPDX document relates to another. At times we have said
        hierarchy and at other times Relationships. We will only use the
        term relationships as Hierarchy is too narrow and Relationships
        implies Hierarchy as well. Jack to talk with Kirsten about that.

  
\* There was some discussion on keeping archived copies of the license
list on the SPDX web site as html ages. We would start with version
1.18. Jilayne was concerned people might use an archived list instead of
the latest one. As this is not a priority item, it was agreed to wait
until the Collab Summit to discuss it and come to a conclusion.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
