# SPDX Outreach Team Meeting, September 15, 2021

## Attendees

* Joshua Marpet
* Kate Stewart
* Sebastian Crane
* Vicky Brasseur

## Regrets

* Bob Martin

## Agenda

* Minutes approval
* Compliance Bill of Materials
* Wikipedia page update
* Fedora use of SPDX License Identifiers
* AOB

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 8th of September approved**

Sebastian - Anchore have been starting to add SPDX relationship support to Syft

Kate - SPDX Docfest is scheduled for tomorrow. Good turnout; team will do analysis on the results.

Kate - press release for ISO release was a good success. The New Stack and LWN have got articles out.

### Wikipedia entry

Sebastian - editor suggested on IRC to reformat the request in the talk page of the article. Most recent communication was 3 days ago; awaiting further progress.

### Interest in the REUSE community about the ISO

REUSE Python tool only implements SPDX 2.1 document generation; ISO is 2.2.

Kate - REUSE is now part of ACT; there may be progress in the tooling now

Sebastian - 2.2 is similar to 2.1, so improvement is possible here

### Fedora license identifiers

Sebastian - Jilayne has been moving in the Fedora community to use SPDX License Identifiers in RPM spec files.

Discussion of 'recruiting' volunteers. All agreed to submit article requesting participation to be considered by the Fedora Magazine. Sebastian to write draft and pass by Jilayne.

### Compliance Bill of Materials

Joshua explained how metadata fingerprints relate to blockchain smart contracts. Joshua would like to set up a working group to use SPDX to contain these fingerprints. Kate and Joshua will collaborate on that off the meeting.

### AOB

Vicky's company is investigating the possibility of sponsoring SPDX.

Kate - ACT would be a good possibility; can fund SPDX tooling development

Discussion of process for becoming a member of SPDX within the context of the new governance model.

## Action points

* Sebastian to draft article for Fedora Magazine

## Topics for next meeting

* Creating information about becoming a member of SPDX
