## Attendees

  - Alan Tse
  - Sam Ellis
  - Brad Edmondson
  - Dennis Clark
  - Mark Gisi
  - Paul Madick
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Tom Vidal
  - Kate Stewart

## Agenda

1\) some general discussion on various postings on tech team mailing
list, e.g., Yocto announcement, additional license expression - need to
have discussion on this latter item with legal team, but not pushing to
do so for 2.1 release. Mark can try to start collecting use cases so we
can assess solution.

2\) license list XML review

  - issue found: nested lists in original licenses didn't always
    represent in XML, we do care about this - lists and nested lists
    should align with how sections and sub-sections. if you spot a
    license where list nesting did not come across, flag it with label =
    bug and add a comment as to what you found
      - end list item should be outside of nested sub-list? - see CC
        license. ask Kris
  - don't worry about escaped characters like & q u o t ; and so forth -
    ok to approve these (ok to merge? ask Kris)
  - would help to have a way to convert XML back to plain text to be
    able to check formatting and how it looks and characters, then can
    see if indentation is right, etc. Suggestion to even set up a build
    test to match. Although being able to view this for individual
    license while you are reviewing them would also be nice. Kris -
    thoughts?
      - also discussed overall plan that this master set would be able
        to generate HTML pages for website, plain text files and other
        formats
  - bullet and numbering - should we not have markup for self-referring
    numbering, which would mean amending the current guideline to say
    only ignore bullets when there is markup? discussed pros and cons of
    this - by doing this we would be more exacting, which is now
    possible with XML format; but all agreed this is not a major issue
    and so there is little value for changing this. Will leave labels
    that Jilayne already tagged, but will not continue to identify

Jilayne to confer with Kris on questions and will amend these notes or
<http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/Templatizing/ReviewXML> as needed

Post call:

  - Jilayne went through licenses with labels, added comments and
    changed labels to follow a more consistent pattern;
    <http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/Templatizing/ReviewXML> as
    needed and updated accordingly
  - where someone had a specific question, assigned it to that person
  - could some of the lawyerly folks have a look at anything with "needs
    legal discussion" tag in interim and comment. If we get 3 comments
    that all agree on a suggested change, then I think we can make the
    change and move it to "approved"
  - tried to move "help wanted" labels to another label category - any
    remaining ones need commenting by assignee
