## Attendees

  - Dennis
  - Brad
  - Paul
  - Kate
  - Tom V
  - Jilayne

## Agenda

1\) Reviewed Dennis' draft document of process for Github management of
license list, here:
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kGSs3CXbtjF_uZmVsjhXMGChyP-pzlszktTr8t4PmmI/edit#>

  - this will be on either readme or separate contributing page, as
    appropriate
  - drafted as is using standard issues template already existing in
    Github; can consider custom issues as option later
  - only team members can create/use labels function
  - added note that Github is not the forum for more general questions
  - do we want people to simply submit a pull request or log issue first
    for change to matching template? sending a PR would be preferred way
    to do it but give option to log an issue if not comfortable with
    doing PR or something that needs discussion - added info about this
  - pull request process - for us, Kris says: keep it simply, accept
    pull request, don’t merge into master - another set of eyes review
    changes… (need to learn more here). treat things we do same as what
    other people do
  - can also link issues and pull requests, this is helpful - e.g.
    linking issues and pull requests
  - question and clarifictaion as to SPDX gtihub account v. LF account
  - Dennis to clear up comments and suggested changes made on call and
    send note to mailing list for people to review again

2\) update on XML work (and schedule)

  - Kris to add exception to review repo by next call on Dec 8th
  - suggest to add intermediary goal of 10 new reviews in 10 days; since
    no meeting for 4 weeks, Jilayne to send updates to keep work on
    people's radar, etc.
  - reviewed action plan items:
    <http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/Templatizing/ActionPlan> -
    will update as to status of these

3\) new exception request/business as usual

  - bootloader exception accepted for next release
  - will cover any outstanding license/exceptions not reviewed on Dec
    8th call
