  - Attendance: 9
  - Minutes for 2011/12/15 approved

## Technical Team Report - Gary

  - Much focus on defining approach for 2.0 spec.
  - Two key elements: Hierarchy and time element (revisions, supply
    chain, approvals)
  - Progress forward, but some concern that we are not converging
    rapidly enough
  - Key discussion about backwards compatibility and how important it is
    for 2.0.

## Business Team Report - Kim

  - New website has been recent focus.
      - There was a training meeting and an email went to voluteers for
        content migration.
      - Web team is implementing the new menu structure and will then
        green light volunteers to move content.
      - That will take two weeks, followed by cleanup.
  - License List addition process
      - Dusted off notes from previous discussion and concluded it
        looked pretty good.
      - Kim working with legal team to review
      - Then we need to publish and implement
  - Community outreach re: data license
      - Kim reaching out to Gentoo, Fedora, Eclipse
      - Thumbs up from Gentoo; waiting on Fedora and Eclipse
      - Adding Gentoo licenses to license list
  - SPDX outreach meeting
      - Silicon Valley, April 6; plans in motion

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Preample to data license complete and will be published.
  - License List
      - License "Templatizing" is taking a new approach; better
        described as "license list matching guidelines."
      - Good progress; lots of concensus
      - Discussion about best form or forms in which to publish (CSV,
        Excel, HTML)

## Cross Functional Issues – Phil

  - Heads up- Potential for need for modest SPDX funding from
    participating companies in the future. Probably a when, not if.

## Open Action Items

  - Phil- If it looks like 2.0 may have backward compatibility issues,
    call broad meeting for community input.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck Software
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Pierre LaPonte, nexB
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Steve Cropper, Cisco
  - Chuck Gaudreau, Protecode

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
