  - Attendance: 9
  - May 3 minutes approved

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Working on explicitly defining the team's mission.
      - Current Draft (feel free to provide feedback to team/Jilayne):
        *"The SPDX Legal Team supports the SPDX working groups by
        providing recommendations to the SPDX working groups regarding
        licensing issues for the specification itself; providing input
        that will result in increased legal certainty of the licensing
        attributes of open source projects; maintain the SPDX License
        List; and to promote the SPDX specification to the legal
        community at-large."*
  - Similarly working on defining purpose of the License List.
      - Current draft (also open for feedback):*"The SPDX License List
        is a list of commonly found open source software licenses for
        the purposes of being able to easily and efficiently identify
        such licenses in an SPDX document. The SPDX License List
        includes a standardized short identifier and full name for each
        license, as well as other basic information. By providing a
        short identifier, SPDX creators (as well as others beyond SPDX)
        can efficiently refer to a license without having to redundantly
        reproduce the full license. The SPDX website (spdx.org)
        maintains the full text of each license on the SPDX License
        List. In keeping with the overall goal of the SPDX project, no
        interpretation of the licenses has been made and the SPDX
        Licenses List endeavors to only provide a factual list of
        licenses and short identifiers that can be consistently relied
        upon by users of the list."*
  - Reviewed and updated longer term to do list
  - Posted process for adding licenses to License List in Specification
    section of current website.

## Business Team Report - Scott/Jack

  - Mission/Vision Discussion
      - To support the Tech Team's work in sorting through 2.0, the team
        is raising a conversation that will go cross team, revisiting
        mission/vision/strategy/etc.
      - Want to ensure that we are all in sync and that make sure that
        our vision remains aligned with what we are trying to do.
      - Expect to share initial thoughts more broadly across teams next
        week.

## Technical Team Report - Kate

  - 2.0 work
      - Continue to work on use cases. Have put into logical groupings.
      - Need help in getting use cases fleshed out.
      - IMPORTANT: If you want to be sure a use case gets attention,
        make sure the template is fleshed out.
      - [Technical\_Team/Use\_Cases/2.0](Technical_Team/Use_Cases/2.0 "wikilink")
  - 1.1 work
      - Working out last kinks.
      - Should be out and available in weeks
      - Available in Tech Team section (in .doc format) for comment

## Cross Functional Issues – Phil

  - Website Update
      - As per May 3 memo, need all content updated by May 31.
      - Content remains a bit sparse. Please make sure you are working
        on any parts for which you are responsible for.
      - Pierre (will assist from Phil, Steve, Kirsten) will make sure
        individuals are assigned, aware of their responsibilities, and
        on track

## Attendees

  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck Software
  - Phil Odence, Black Duck Software
  - Pierre LaPonte, nexB
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Scott Lamons, HP
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Brandan Robinson, Cisco
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
