# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, March 23, 2023

## Attendees

* Mark Atwood
* Karen Bennet
* Richard Fontana
* Brad Goldring
* Maximilian Huber
* Rose Judge
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Gary O'Neall
* Gopi Krishnan Rajbahadur
* Ria Schalnat
* Jim Vitrano
* Steve Winslow
* Richard Fontana

## Agenda and Notes

## License exceptions inclusion principles

- Steve’s PR as per his previous email, see https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/pull/1883 codifying the exceptions criteria as discussed a couple meeting ago (this is simply capturing what we’ve been doing, as that was not documented, so should not be controversial)
- Seems aligned with existing practice, probably should have been included originally in license inclusion principles writeup
- Can iterate over time as needed
- question about Commons Clause as an example (which had been submitted some time ago and was not accepted)
- accepted and merged


# Exception requests
- a few issues that relate to “exceptions” or something like an exception: 
* https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1672
  * libzmq "exception" mandates preserving the exception in downstream uses of the modified library. Does that mean it's not really an "exception"?
  * Appears that it can't be removed
  * Language in the new principles assumes that you know what an "exception" means. libzmq might have a different definition of "exception" than FSF or others
  * Think that FSF would read the term more narrowly than some others would. 2 and 3 in the new inclusion principles seem to align with this.
  * Sometimes, people might add a FOSS-like "additional restriction"
  * Seems like this libzmq language (last sentence) is almost like a 'copyleft-style' requirement -- not necessarily non-FOSS, but seems not "classical exception"
  * Key question: For SPDX Exceptions List, do exceptions have to be "removable"? All FSF-authorized ones are; all additional permissions in GPL-3.0 are.
    * If so, then libzmq exception is not an "exception", because it is not removable.
  * This one is probably not LGPL-3.0 compatible
  * Question about how many others may be like this. Note in chat, only aware of 1-2 others that are "FOSS-like exceptions with additional restrictions"
  * Several feelings among participants that this is appropriate to add, given wide usage
  * libzmq went through a process to try to relicense
  * maybe could add and include a note that acknowledges that last sentence is borderline on inclusion, but substantial use is important, background in terms of intentions of licensors
  * Steve - main attendee resistant to adding, because of arguable "additional restriction" and because doesn't fit with "removable" nature of exceptions. But recognize consensus from other attendees and would be OK with adding with additional note as mentioned above
* libzmq: consensus to add but with caveat in Notes

https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1798
- Steve question: should the SPDX License List include purely patent licenses? This, also the AOM one Mark brought up last time
- Steve may reach out to a Google contact to get their input; Steve and Jilayne to connect
- Possible option of adding this, but in combination with the BSD-3-Clause license - e.g. BSD-3-Clause-WebM that combines the two license texts
- consensus to add this as single license, but give Google an opportunity to weigh in

## Future topics

- GSoC update: we have a few students interested in the GSoC project for improving the SPDX online license submission tool and xml editor. Rohit and I are the mentors for the project. I’ve encouraged them to get familiar with using the tool and the process, so if you see issues or PRs marked “TEST” that is why. Please feel free to comment, answer questions,  and otherwise support these contributors!
