**DRAFT**

**Administrative**

## Agenda

  - Attendance - 17
  - Approval of minutes: Approved Aug 26 and Sept 9
  - Outreach and evangelism:
      - Common Messaging/Presentation – PhilO
      - Industry Venues – PhilR
      - Website – PhilO/MartinM
  - Roll Out Update - KimW/JohnE (volunteer needs, face to face plan)
  - Legal update from LF Member Counsel call- Rockett

## Common Messaging/Presentation

PhilO once again expressed openness to any feedback on the standards
slides we should all be using to describe SPDX

## Industry Venues

PhilR lead a discussion about future events we should be getting on the
list. He will be updating. All are encouraged to crowdsource this list.

## Website

Website is still developing and PhilO is open to feedback.

## Rollout

PhilO summarized the need for a roll out plan. Kim emphasized that we
are looking for volunteers from the group and our respective
organizations. A face to face meeting will be scheduled for Nov 16/17,
with location to be determined based on who is coming.

## Legal Update

Rockett summarized a call with Linux Foundation legal group, the Member
Counsel. (Kim, Kate, JohnE and PhilO also participated.) The Member
Council has been aware of standardization efforts for a couple of year
and this call was to provide status. A number of the participants were
new to the MC, so it was important to get them up to speed. They
encouraged us to provide them with an example.

## Action Items

  - Kate- Transfer document (.pdf) back to WIKI. IN PROCESS; FORMATTING
    IS A BEAST
  - Kim (formerly Kate)- Clean up the sharing analysis to what is
    accurate. IN PROCESS
  - JeffL (w/Bill/Gary- Update zlib based on new specification IN
    PROCESS
  - KimW- Sent rollout slides to mailing list DONE
  - RDF Group- Work out syntax for 5.6/5.7 IN PROCESS ON RECOMMENDATION
  - Bill S- Add Ed W to the RDF group DONE
  - Kate- Track and (when Wiki is back up) implement changes described
    in Spec section below. WAITING FOR WIKI
  - PeterW- Implement issue tracking system. TO BE DISCUSSED.

New

  - Phil R- Update Industry Events.
  - Kate- Draft example for LF Member Counsel; include XML and
    corresponding spreadsheet (or spreadsheet-like) format.

**Technical**

## Agenda

  - Spec update- Kate
  - RDF work group update - Bill
  - Tools repository - Gary/Kate/Bill
  - Licenses: special working session on Friday at 12 CDT

## Spec

Formatting difficulties have slowed getting the spec back in the Wiki.
That's in process. Kate will add 5.6/5.7.

## RDF

Work group is in process defining the ontology. Using knodle site:
<http://knoodl.com/ui/groups/SPDX/vocab/SPDX(dev-only);jsessionid=16BABC384D81ECF9EC6DC52C93977C3E>

Participating are Bill, Kate, Gary, Peter, Jeff, Ed, Kyle (from
Canonical), Pierre. Bruno and Marshall have been monitoring as well. We
discussed using DOAP (description of a project) as a way to extend SPDX
capability.

## Tools Repository

LF is willing to host Bugzilla (as well as code). No one in the group
saw any problem with going ahead. Kate, Bill and Peter are open to input
for defining the hierarchy.

## License Discussion

We discussed the call (Friday, Sept 24) dedicated to the big picture
license discussion. Decoupling versioning from spec versioning, process
for including new licenses, list for version 1, etc.

## Attendees

  - Jack Manbeck, Texas Instruments
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Soeren Rabenstein, ASUS
  - Philippe Ombredanne, nexB Inc.
  - Esteban Rockett, Motorola
  - Phil Robb, Hewlett Packard
  - Bill Schineller, Black Duck Software
  - Philip Odence, Black Duck Software
  - Phil Koltun, Linux Foundation
  - Janet Campbell, Eclipse Foundation
  - Pierre Lapointe, nexB
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Ann Thornton, Freescale
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
