**Administrative**

## Agenda

  - Attendance - 18
  - Approval of minutes from BoF session – Approved.
  - New Logistics and Expanding Group
  - Outreach and evangelism:
      - Common Messaging/Presentation – Phil O
      - Industry Venues – Phil R
          - LinuxCon Debrief- Phil O
      - Website – Martin M

## Logistics

PhilO discussed need for evolving logistics with the group getting
larger and including new folks. We're doing away with the "Who just
joined?" approach to attendance and will mainly depend on log-ins to
Webshare to record attendance. In addition everyone is encouraged to
state their name when speaking. There also some discussion (actually it
came up towards the end of the meeting) about providing minutes via a
link rather than an attached Word doc.

## Common Messaging/Presentation

PhilO is updating the presentation to reflect Kate's LinuxCon
presentation content.

Industry Venues ==

PhilO reported on LinuxCon. Jim Zemlin's keynote was all about the new
Open Compliance Program, and SPDX was prominently featured. SPDX got
some good PR out of it and one article said it was the key to the bigger
program. Phil Koltun delivered a more detailed session on the OCP and
Kate had one on SPDX. Both were well attended. Finally, we had a Birds
of a Feature session.

## Website

Kudos to Martin for helping PhilO get the new spdx.org launched in time
for LinuxCon. There was some discussion about making it more obvious how
one joins both the group and the mailing list; it's better to be
redundant in order to be more welcoming. There was also a discussion
about getting examples up to date and getting the Wiki going again. We
finally got into a discussion about hosting code for tools.
Possibilities were: SourceForge, GitHub.

## Rollout

PhilO mentioned the JohnE and KimW have been working on a rollout plan,
expanding on both out technical efforts and outreach/evangelism efforts.
More at the next meeting.

## Action Items

  - PhilO/Martin - Update on participation page where to join
    (suggestion was to put link in text, not just at top, consider "I
    want to use the spec, vs. I want to contribute to the spec" in
    navigation section.
  - Kate- Transfer document (.pdf) back to WIKI.
  - PhilO- Update standard presentation with LinuxCon2010 input
  - Kate- Clean up the sharing analysis to what is accurate.
  - Kate- Publish the current version number of the specification in
    brackets behind reference
  - Kim/PhilO- Add and element of 'What's in this for me?" to
    presentation
  - JeffL (w/Bill/Gary- Update zlib based on new specification
  - All- Look for new examples to add to site.
  - PhilK- Explore possibility of LF hosting source for SPDX tools.
  - Gary- Explore other possible hosting options
  - PhilO- Start making minutes available via link.
  - BillS- Start up RDF sub-group. Solicite members.

**Technical**

## Agenda

  - Review mock up from Spot Calloway
    <https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/TomCallaway/SPDX_License_List>
  - License Short Form Discussion- Kate
  - General RDF Discussion

## Mock Up

Spot was not in attendance, but we reviewed the mock-up. There was fair
agreement that its close to what we are looking for (if not "Spot" on)

## Short Form Licenses

Our implicit path had tied a fixed license list of licenses to the spec
rev, but JohnE put forth an impassioned argument as to why they should
be decoupled: Essentially we'll want the license list to change with
more frequency than the spec (months vs. years). A new license can't
mean a new spec rev. There was much discussion about how to manage the
license list.

There was fair agreement just as there is a "playground" for working on
the spec and a release process to the current rev, there should be a
similar arrangement for licenses (though decoupled) and certainly there
should be legal review.

There was not complete agreement about the intended scope of the list,
but there was agreement that there needed so be some nomination process
and that anyone wishing to add a license must be willing to take on the
associated work. BobG is willing to be a contributor. A topic of future
discussion is how we will come down on the initial V1.0 list of
licenses. These issues in contemplated in the rollout framework that
we'll be putting forth.

## RDF

We reviewed the intent of using RDF and BillS described what's been done
with DOAP as a model. Essentially, we're exploring RDF as a reasonable
balance between the needs of people being able to view and create SPDX
docs, and machines to be able to consume and produce the format.

There was agreement that there is lots of work to be done in this area:
defining the syntax, defining web repository of license info,
documenting usage, etc. We decided that we need a sub-team to take this
on. BillS will coordinate and PeterW, Gary and Kate will participate, as
well as others who are interested.

## Attendance

  - Michael Herzog, NexB
  - Bob Gobeille, FOSSology.org, HP
  - Ann Thornton, Freescale
  - Martin Michlmayr, HP
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Jeff Luszcz, Palamida
  - Richard Fontana, Red Hat
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Phil Koltun, Linux Foundation
  - John Ellis, Motorola
  - David Wolfe, Freescale
  - Tom Incorvia, Micro Focus
  - Kim Weins, Open Logic
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Bill Schineller, Black Duck Software
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Philip Odence, Black Duck Software

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
