## Minutes

  - Attendance - 13
  - Approval of minutes: 10/14 and 10/21 minutes approved
  - Outreach and evangelism:
      - Common Messaging/Presentation – PhilO
          - no update
      - Industry Venues – PhilR
          - no update
      - Website – MartinM
          - Rearranged so that spec under Specification tab can not be
            edited with the working version being under Participation
          - Dealt with some legacy spam reputation issues with spdx.org.
  - Roll Out Update - KimW/JohnE
      - Face to Face pushed out into Dec/Jan
      - Need more volunteers before scheduling
      - Beta program is most urgent item; John is back in action and
        focusing on that.
  - Legal Update - Rockett
      - No update.
  - Linux Plumbers report live from Cambridge
      - Well received licensing presentation from Mark Gisi and Sven
        Dummer included good plug for SPDX
      - Interest from Yahoo\! in participation
      - BoF discussion on creating SPDX report for the kernal.

## Action Items

Note: Drafting related action items are embedded in the Wiki.

  - Dave - Clean up the WIKI to only have analysis visible that reflects
    current spec. ON HOLD FOR MARTIN TO PROVIDE PRIVS; SHOULD BE
    UNDERWAY
  - Dave/JeffL - Update zlib based on new specification DONE, BUT
    AWAITING FEEDBACK
  - Peter - Mail out competing proposals for 5.6/5.7 DONE
  - PeterW- Implement issue tracking system. BLOCKED ON KATE
  - Kate - submit ids to Linux Foundation so infrastructure setup can
    proceed - PENDING
  - Kate- Draft example for LF Member Counsel; include XML and
    corresponding spreadsheet (or spreadsheet-like) format. PENDING
  - Kim - list of questions from Open World Forum to form start of FAQ -
    pending - will send mail to list with questions remembered, request
    Phillipe O, add comments. DONE
  - Phil R - Update Industry Events. IN PROCESS
  - Kate - 10/14 minutes to be added to WIKI for review. - DONE
  - Bill S - Send Martin some examples of issue posting HTML. DONE
  - Rockett- Mail out trademark policy draft to SPDX list. WAITING FOR
    SIGNOFF BY LF
  - Rockett- Query status of trademark application TBD
  - Kim- Update of plans for Face to Face DONE
  - Kim- Send out invite for next licensing meeting. DONE. WILL INCLUDE
    FOLKS FROM DEBIAN.
  - All- Review 6 months mail and contrast against licensing group
    spreadsheet. FOR NEXT LICENSE GRP MEETING
  - All- If you can't attend meeting, post feedback/vote to list on
    5.6/5.7 proposals. FOR TECH AGENDA NXT MTG.
  - Kate- Write up formal proposal on SHA field change and mail to list.
    IN PROCESS
  - All- Review SHA field change proposal for technical flaws; if so,
    discuss on list. FOR TECH AGENDA NXT MEETING
  - Kate- Add back to SPEC page in WIKI preferred syntax for adding
    comments. TBD

## Next Meeting

  - 2010/11/18 at same time. NOTE EURO/US TIME DIFF WILL BE BACK TO
    NORMAL.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Tom Incorvia - MicroFocus
  - Esteban Rockett, MotorolA
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Dave M. Open Logic
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, Open Logic
  - Martin Michlmyer, HP
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Ann Thompson, Freescale
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Phil Robb, HP
  - John Ellis, Motorola
  - Marshall Clow, Qualcomm

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
