  - Attendance - 12
  - Minutes from 2 Dec meeting approved

## Technical Team Report

  - Still going back and forth on grammar and syntax, resolving RDF and
    tag value
  - Various proposals will be circulating
  - Next priority is defining a license template

## Business Team Report

  - Beta program starting up. Aiming to start late Q1 and wrap in late
    Q2
  - Some tooling needs to be in place prior to make it easier to
    generate syntactically correct RDF as well as to create human
    readable format. Gary's 'pretty printer' is a good starting point
  - Ideally seeking pairs of supply chain partners for beta. Motorola
    and HP are interested. Maybe Fedora.
  - Ping KimW if interested or with ideas

## Legal Team Report

  - Kicked of regular meetings.
  - First Meeting: successfully bridging from licensing sub-team to new
    Legal Team. Good discussion about handling GPL3 exceptions. Also
    about rev'ing license list. And what is "required" for valid SPDX
  - Much discussion about license list. Conclusion as that we should add
    a field to SPDX that specifies the version of the license list used
    to generate the file. The version number for the list will be date
    based.

## Cross Functional Issues

  - Collaboration Summit. April 6-8, San Francisco
      - Will be a compliance track on Thursday morning, the 7th
        including SPDX presentation
      - Tech Team will meet Thursday afternoon; Business Team, Friday
        morning
      - Legal Team may meet at Euro event or may try a teleconference
  - Need folks to migrate to respective mailing lists.
      - Current lists, Technical- 10 (up 2), Business- 7 (up 1), Legal-
        12 (up 5)

## Action Items

  - Kate/Kim- Draft example for LF Member Counsel; include XML and
    spreadsheet. PENDING
  - Kate- Add back to Spec page in wiki preferred syntax for adding
    comments. DONE
  - MichaelH/Rockett- Write up and share postion on "reporting" vs.
    "interpreting. PENDING
  - GaryO- Post regular meeting times on Tech Team page. DONE
  - Rockett- Post regular meeting times on Legal Team page. PENDING
  - MartinM- Report back on \# of people on respective mailing lists.
    DONE, BUT LET'S KEEP UPDATING

## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Phil Odence, Black Duck Software
  - Bill Schineller, Black Duck Software
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Phil Koltun, Linux Foundation
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Martin Michlmayr, HP
  - Esteban Rockett, Motorola
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Pierre Lapointe, nexB

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
