**DRAFT**

## Agenda

  - Attendance - 14
  - Approval of minutes: 9/23 were approved on 10/14; 10/14 still need
    to be entered and reviewed.
  - Outreach and evangelism:
      - Common Messaging/Presentation – PhilO
          - no update
      - Industry Venues – PhilR
          - no update
      - Website – MartinM
          - website has been running smoothly for while, no missing
            feature requests recently
          - SPDX listed in spam databases - working to get spdx removed.
          - BillS: any issue with posting HTML page? look to getting
            subdirectory should be ok
          - ''( **AI: Bill S** to send Martin some examples. '')
  - Legal Update - Rockett
      - SPDX file contents license - working on draft with Bradley,
        under creative commons - make sure last person editing absolves
        the previous person. Ideal goal is to work with Creative Commons
        open source license author.
      - Trademark use policy - Karen & Rockett to work on it. To be
        reviewed with SPDX work group, prior to wider publishing**''
        (AI: Rockett** to mail out trademark policy draft to SPDX
        list)''
      - Trademark processing in progress - looking for response back
        early November '' (**AI: Rockett** to query status)''
      - Second dedicated LF meeting is still to be scheduled, SPDX cliff
        notes version needed for (see action item for Kate below),
        Rockett to announce date.
      - Some concern to make sure that SPDX is cast at appropriate light
        with Linux Foundation, and is not oversold.
  - Roll Out Update - KimW
      - no changes on roll out - face to face date still pending
      - key is how many people can participate, will be discussed
        tomorrow, and Kim to mail out to wider group the plans. **''
        (AI: Kim** to announce F2F plans after discussion)''
  - Licensing Subgroup Update - Jilayne
      - spreadsheet sent out with first list.
      - guidelines created as went along - looking for review and
        feedback from group.
      - questions came up as looking at it - to be discussed in next
        licensing meeting.
      - next licensing meeting now scheduled for 11/12 at this time -
        '**'(AI: Kim** to set up invite.) ''
      - ***(AI all**: please review 6 months mail and contrast against
        spreadsheet.)*
      - Some discussion on headers and decision made to keep the syntax
        of the text to be language neutral was made. (ie. C style
        comments, Java style, etc. ignored )
      - For now we'll keep working in spreadsheet, with goal of auto
        translating it over to the html pages when stabilizes. (see
        action for Martin/Bill to look at html pages written directly to
        WIKI)
  - RDF Subgroup Update - Peter
      - concensus of how code RDF semantics into spec still in
        discussion.
      - group is at work on adding additional capabilities to licensing
        part.
      - 5.6/5.7 issue - one proposal adds 5.6 & 5.7 additional
        properties (name and URL of project file belongs to) - alternate
        proposal links to DOAP project that encodes the name and URL. ''
        (**AI: Peter** will write up formal proposal between the two
        proposal, and mail out to list. )''
      - ***(AI: All** - Next meeting will be voting on it explicitly,
        those that can't attend, are urged to post feedback/vote to
        list.)*
  - Spec Update - Kate
      - 3.3 - changing field from SHA of tarball to XOR of file level
        SHAs. '' (**AI: Kate** to write up formal proposal for change of
        field and mail out to the list.''
      - *(**AI: All** - please review and if there are technical flaws
        open discussion on list, if no flaws figured out, next meeting
        will vote on it changing).*
      - 5.6/5.7 - discussion of mail list threads - clarification of
        proposals? (see comments under RDF)
      - no other spec field issues known pending at this time. Any new
        suggestions/requests/comments, please post to list, and add
        entry into appropriate point in WIKI.
      - *(**AI: Kate** add back to SPEC page in WIKI - prefered syntax
        for adding comments into SPEC)*

## Action Items

  - Kate- Transfer document (.pdf) back to WIKI. DONE
  - Dave - Clean up the WIKI to only have analysis visible that reflects
    current spec. IN PROCESS
  - Dave/JeffL - Update zlib based on new specification IN PROCESS
  - Peter - Mail out competing proposals for 5.6/5.7 IN PROCESS
  - Kate- Track and (when Wiki is back up) implement changes described
    in Spec section below. DONE (see above)
  - PeterW- Implement issue tracking system. BLOCKED ON KATE
  - Kate - submit ids to Linux Foundation so infrastructure setup can
    proceed - pending.
  - Kate- Draft example for LF Member Counsel; include XML and
    corresponding spreadsheet (or spreadsheet-like) format. peinding
  - Kim - list of questions from Open World Forum to form start of FAQ -
    pending - will send mail to list with questions remembered, request
    Phillipe O, add comments.
  - Phil R - Update Industry Events.
  - Kim/Martin - slides from OWF made available. Now posted on open
    world - matin to post to SPDX or link. - DONE
  - Kate - 10/14 minutes to be added to WIKI for review. - IN PROCESS

New - See notes in above minutes.

## Next Meeting

  - 2010/01/04 at same time.

## Attendees

  - Tom Incorvia - MicroFocus
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Esteban Rockett, Motorola
  - Bill Schineller, Black Duck Software
  - Phil Koltun, Linux Foundation
  - Janet Campbell, Eclipse Foundation
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Eric W., Open Logic
  - Dave M. Open Logic
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, Open Logic
  - Martin Michlmyer, HP
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
