**DRAFT**

## Minutes

  - Approval of minutes from Sept 23
      - approved
  - Outreach and evangelism:
      - Industry Venues – PhilR - no update
      - Website – MartinM - no update
  - Roll Out Update - KimW
      - Have seen some volunteers, more needed
      - Provided summary of Open World Forum talk - good feedback and
        interest.
  - Legal Update - Rockett
      - no update
  - Licensing Subgroup Update - Kate/KimW
      - meeting held on 9/24 with good input and discussions
      - we'll be adopting the 1 page per license proposal that Callaway
        put forward.
      - discussion on what should be in initial version of spec, vs. web
        site.
  - RDF Subgroup Update - BillS
      - Peter has been working on prototype that lets us encode the
        specification within the RDF, approach looks promising.
      - working through external vocabularies to see if concept match,
        and we can leverage.
  - Linux Foundation Code Repository - Kate
      - got account info from Peter, Gary & Bill - need to forward on to
        Linux Foundation.

## Action Items

  - Kate- Transfer document (.pdf) back to WIKI. - in porgress
  - Kim- Clean up the sharing analysis to what is accurate. - Dave will
    help out
  - JeffL (w/Bill/Gary) - Update zlib based on new specification - Dave
    is looking at as one of Open Logic examples.
  - RDF Group- Work out syntax for 5.6/5.7 - pending
  - Kate- Track and implement changes described in Spec from maillist. -
    pending WIKI updates
  - PeterW- Implement issue tracking system with Linux Foundation
    infrastructure. - pending Kate communication
  - Phil R- Update Industry Events. - pending
  - Kate- Draft example for LF Member Counsel; include XML and
    corresponding spreadsheet (or spreadsheet-like) format. - pending.

## Attendees

  - Tom Incorvia - MicroFocus
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Phil Koltun, Linux Foundation
  - Janet Campbell, Eclipse Foundation
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Ann Thompson, Freescale
  - Dave M., Open Logic
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
