  - Attendance: 10
  - Minutes accepted
    [General\_Meeting/Minutes/2011-02-24](General_Meeting/Minutes/2011-02-24 "wikilink")

## Technical Team Report - Kate

Team is recovering from specification review held at the Linux
Collaboration Summit face-to-face meeting.

An initial revised draft (PDF) incorporating first round of feedback,
dated 20110411, is posted here:
<http://spdx.org/wiki/spdx/specification>

Team is working through discrepancies and adding examples for RDF

It's still possible to have the tools complete (alpha quality) by the
end of April, or within one week of beta spec being finalized.

Requested feedback from legal team on web page location (URI) for
special terms such as UNDETERMINED.

  - Previously specified: the URI for these terms points to entries on
    on the spdx.org/licenses web page
  - New proposal: the URL for these terms points to appropriate Terms
    page on the spdx.org web page. Reasoning: These special terms are
    used for data fields for License, Copyright, and Project
    download/homepage URIs. Since the terms are not specific to
    licenses, it seems more appropriate to post the definitions for
    these terms on a terminology web page rather than the
    spdx.org/licenses web page.

## Business Team Report - Kim

Coordinators have been identified for the 3 beta pairs. Kick off calls
planned for early May (likely 2nd week).

Training materials in progress and will be finalized once beta spec is
final.

Three new discussion/action threads were identified at the Linux
Collaboration Summit face-to-face

  - connect with yocto project and possibly other build tools for
    potential integration
  - outreach to additional open source communities
  - review/update SPDX website for ease-of-use by newly members, beta
    participants and casual users

## Legal Team Report - Rockett

2 active discussions continue: metadata licensing and how to handle
id'ing author/reviewer

Metadata Licensing: Stil active discussion delving in aspects of:

  - Confidentiality
      - when exchanged between two parties
      - when made public (how to avoid copyright issues)

How to handle id'ing authors/reviewers

  - There is value in this data
  - Pedigree data creates concerns
  - Making author/reviewing anonymous creates trust issues

Related: Trying to determine beta approach for audit / revision history

  - Change log has been proposed but there are timing and complexity
    questions
  - Working to put together straw man
  - Team considers this is not required for beta but would like input
    from beta participants
  - This becomes more important as supply chain expands beyond two

## Action Items

Most of the action items belong with the Teams. So, in addition to
statusing, we will dispatch them to the respective teams and will not
continue to track in this meeting. Action items for this meeting will be
cross functional.

  - Kate- Beta collateral: Examples in XML and spreadsheet form. PENDING
  - MartinM- Report back on \# of people on respective mailing lists.
    ONGOING
      - spdx: 98
      - spdz-biz: 17
      - spdx-legal: 23
      - spdx-tech: 21

## Attendees

  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck Software
  - Esteban Rockett, Motorola
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Jillayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Michael Herzog, NexB
  - Kamal Hassin, Protecode
  - Peter Wiliams, OpenLogic
  - Richard Faulk, Black Duck

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
