  - Attendance: 12
  - Minutes for 20110616 approved

## Technical Team Report - Kate

  - Tools- some issues have arisen in beta, but are being rapidly
    resolved
  - New spec and tool versions due next week
  - FAQs need work- all pls review

## Business Team Report - Kim

  - Extended biz meeting on July 7 to focus on beta fb and website. All
    invited
      - Aim is to ID only showstopper items
  - GA Launch:
      - Stake in ground for mid-August
      - Press release- to include endorsements
      - Phil has speaking slot, JimZ should mention in Keynote,
        Table/Booth of some sort

## Legal Team Report - Rockett

  - Maximizing adoption is the filter for all decisions
  - Key current issue: Creator/Reviewer fields
      - Some Member Counsel are concerned about having files wrongly
        attributed to companies
      - Team is working to understand and address concerns
      - But don't want to casually drop fields that may be valuable to
        others
  - Question about rules for resolving- Concensus is ideal

## Cross Functional Issues â€“ Discussion

  - Approach to convergence on V1.0
      - Still open legal/biz issues.
      - Driving for resolution by end of July
      - Identify showstoppers in beta meeting and ID owners to sheppard
        resolution of each
      - Clean up spec and finaliz by 8/12, prior to 8/17 launch
  - Website
      - Shifted from mockups to mindmap
      - To be presented at meeting on 7th
      - Volunteers needed for sandbox
  - BOM formats MichaelH
      - Real BOMs can be very complex with unlimited depth and width
      - Hierarchy is key
      - There are two well-known existing models
          - ERP BOM data model
          - PDX - Product Data Exchange
      - We don't need to deal with today, but need to consider in the
        future
      - Michael posting

## Open Action Items

  - MartinM- Report back on \# of people on respective mailing lists.
    ONGOING
  - Kim -- share Biz Team proposed process for adding licenses to SPDX
    list more broadly
  - Michael H. -- Posting BOM info
  - Kim- Creating FAQ strucdture and handing out pieces for review,
    cleanup, additions

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck Software
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck Software
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Martin Michlmayr, HP
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Brandon Robinson, Cisco
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Pierre LaPonte, nexB
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Esteban Rockett, Motorola
  - Michael Herzog, nexB

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
