  - Attendance: 7

## Technical Team Report - Kate

  - Bugzilla, the final piece of downed infrastracture up, so we are
    finally fully functional
  - Tech team has been meeting regularly thru the outtage.
  - Minutes have been distributed through the mailing list and will be
    posted
  - Shortly a new draft will be available, either "1.1" or "1.0.1"
  - EdW is still working on a proposal for handling hierarchy which will
    be the basis for SPDX 2.0.
  - There have been some good recent contributions to the SPDX tools
    including a new verification tool

## Business Team Report - Michael Herzog (in Kim's absence)

  - Most of the recent discussion has been on our infrastructure plan in
    the wake of the outtage.
  - No update on new website.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne (in Rockett's absence)

  - Data license issue
      - Seems to be resolved to everyone's satisfaction.
      - Rockett drafted a pre-amble to the CC0 license and got support
        from Eben Moglen.
  - Next Steps
      - Templatizing work is resuming in the next Legal Team call.
      - Jilayne is resuming some clean-up on the license list

## Cross Functional Issues â€“ Phil

  - Infrastructure
      - Discussed the LF's infrastructure issue. Phil's opinion is that
        the new infrastructure meets our needs
      - In the next couple weeks there will be a meeting with folks from
        the Linux Foundation in which they will present an overview
        what's been done, the idea being to make us comfortable.
      - We don't want to group to be overly large, but if anyone is
        interested in participating, email Phil.

## Open Action Items

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck Software
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Pierre Lapointe, nexB
  - Adam Cohn, Cisco
  - Brandon Robinson, Cisco

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
