  - Attendance: 11
  - Minutes for 20110602 approved

## Technical Team Report - Kate

  - Tools: Updating tools as needed
  - Spec: Working minor changes to June 5 version of the spec
  - Spec: Have had interesting discussions with Cisco about mapping SPDX
    to their current process. Expect that new fields and possibly new
    models will come out of this discussion
  - Beta feedback: Looking for place to collect/present feedback. Would
    like to be sure we capture feedback even for items we've resolved.
    Kim plans to create wiki page.

## Business Team Report - Kim

  - Beta program:
      - HP/WindRiver & OL/Antelink continue to make progress
      - Motorola/TI progress is not yet clear
      - There's been some confusion over license fields at package
        level. A wiki discussion on this topic can be found here:
        [General\_Meeting/License\_Field\_Discussion](General_Meeting/License_Field_Discussion "wikilink")
  - GA Launch:
      - Continue to work to get ready for launch at LinuxCon NA in
        mid-August

## Legal Team Report - In absentia

  - All legal team members are at a separate face-to-face meeting and
    unable to attend this meeting

## Cross Functional Issues â€“ Discussion

  - Website update- Kirsten
      - Working on mind-maps for proposed flow; plan to present more
        generally in next few weeks
      - Logistical question from Kim: should we remove or archive older
        content?
          - Both options are available; deleting won't create orphaned
            pages
          - Will likely decide on case-by-case basis
  - Package License fields - Postponed until next meeting since legal
    team not present this week

## Open Action Items

  - MartinM- Report back on \# of people on respective mailing lists.
    ONGOING
  - Kim -- share Biz Team proposed process for adding licenses to SPDX
    list more broadly
  - Michael H. -- provide info on existing BOM standards that should be
    useful for future consideration
  - Legal/Biz Teams- Review and update Master Schedule
  - ?? -- volunteers needed to review and update the FAQ:
    [SPDX\_FAQ](SPDX_FAQ "wikilink")

## Attendees

  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck Software
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Bill Schineller, Black Duck Software
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Martin Michlmayr, HP
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Brandon Robinson, Cisco
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Phil Koltun, Linux Foundation
  - Juergen Weigert, SuSE

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
