  - Attendance - 9
  - Minutes from 13 Jan meeting approved

## Technical Team Report

  - Met Tuesday with Kate joining from Australia
  - Most of the discussion was about new license fields in file section
    of spec

## Business Team Report

  - Questions for Tech Team on how the schedule looks. Generally good
    for end of Q1 completion of what's required for beta, albeit Kate
    was not here to weigh in.
  - Beta program
      - Kickoff meeting with participants Feb3 during the normal Biz
        Team. Feel free to participate or invite anyone interested.
      - There will be subsequent meetings with partner pairs
      - Should be ready to go in April

## Legal Team Report From PhilO/Jilayne in Rockett's absence)

  - Recent focus has been on new fields for file licenses:
      - Concluded License- Based on author's analysis
      - License Information in File- Just what's in the file
      - Also a field for explanation of basis for conclusion
  - We will change a handful of license short names for consistency with
    DEP-5 list

## Cross Functional Issues

  - PhilO explained new Master Schedule under General Meeting

## Action Items

  - Kate/Kim- Draft example for LF Member Counsel; include XML and
    spreadsheet. PENDING
  - MichaelH/Rockett- Write up and share postion on "reporting" vs.
    "interpreting". PENDING
  - MartinM- Report back on \# of people on respective mailing lists.
    DONE, BUT LET'S KEEP UPDATING
  - Jilayne- Add column to license list showing Deb5 short names for
    comparison. DONE

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck Software
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Phil Koltun, Linux Foundation
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Guillaume Rousseau, Antelink
  - Bill Schineller, Black Duck Software

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
