  - Attendance: 13
  - Minutes for 20110519 approved

## Technical Team Report - Gary

  - Tools: have received good feedback; addressed a few technical
    issues; available for beta use
  - Spec: final polishing has been largely completed; waiting for one
    more review from legal which is expected by Friday am PT

## Business Team Report - Kim

  - 3 beta teams are working; target for beta completion & feedback is
    end of June; request that all teams work toward this date
      - HP/WindRiver & OL/Antelink are in progress
      - Kickoff for Motorola/TI still to be scheduled, but there's been
        activity. Rockett will work with Gary to get kickoff scheduled
  - Website refresh subteam has been created. Details on this working
    group can be found here:
      - [Old/Website\_Refresh](Old/Website_Refresh "wikilink")
  - GA launch process is next big thing to focus on
      - Planned for LinuxCon in Vancouver
      - Phil O. has a speaking slot
      - Goal include press release and mention in keynote

## Legal Team Report - Rockett

  - Last scrub on 5/16 spec in progress. Final comments due by Friday am
    PT time, 6/3
  - Recommend Open Data Commons PDDL license for SPDX MetaData
    (http://www.opendatacommons.org/licenses/pddl/); will send link to
    broader group for final sign-off
  - License templatizing is the next big focus
  - Also noted that we'll need a process for adding licenses to SPDX
    list very soon; Kim says Biz Team has a proposal for a process and
    she'll plan to share more broadly

## Cross Functional Issues â€“ Discussion

  - Website update- Steve
      - Sandbox for testing new website structure in place
      - Team plans to create storyboards for 3-4 personas using mind map
        tools
      - wiki pages for working group now available
        [Old/Website\_Refresh](Old/Website_Refresh "wikilink")
  - Questions/recommendations for presenting data for binaries and
    archives such as jar files -- Kim
      - There's been recent email about how to represent data for
        binaries that are combinations of OSS, 3rd party, and
        proprietary code in SPDX documents
      - Issue has also come up for OL/Antelink beta partners;
        OL/Antelink have decided to use compound licensing for jar files
        when needed; should we recommend the same approach for binaries?
      - There was a lively discussion on this topic with input from
        Steve Cropper, Kim Weins, Michael Herzog, Kate Stewart
      - Main conclusion: Recommendations for how to handle these use
        cases need to be added to the draft FAQ
          - Draft FAQ is available here:
            [SPDX\_FAQ](SPDX_FAQ "wikilink")
          - FAQ should address questions about proprietary and 3rd party
            as well as OSS licenses
          - Kim added a number of topics to the FAQ; need volunteers to
            provide additional info on these topics
      - A side issue regarding how best to connect package and SPDX
        document was also discussed
      - The topic of package hierarchy also came up
          - Michael H. noted that the SPDX team made a conscious choice
            not to tackle this for v1 of the specification
          - v1 spec is intended to address lower level or sub-assembly
            items and a BOM is not yet represented in the spec
          - Recommended that a section on items specifically deferred be
            added to the FAQ so that new users have visibility into
            these decisions
          - Michael also volunteered to pull together info on well
            traveled routes for BOMs that we might want to leverage

## Open Action Items

  - MartinM- Report back on \# of people on respective mailing lists.
    ONGOING
  - Kim -- share Biz Team proposed process for adding licenses to SPDX
    list more broadly
  - Michael H. -- provide info on existing BOM standards that should be
    useful for future consideration
  - Legal/Biz Teams- Review and update Master Schedule
  - ?? -- volunteers needed to review and update the FAQ:
    [SPDX\_FAQ](SPDX_FAQ "wikilink")

## Closed Action Items

  - Kirsten- Notify Kim of need to clean up business section of website.
  - MartinM- Get master list of website pages to Kate

## Attendees

  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck Software
  - Kamal Hassin, Protecode
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Esteban Rockett, Motorola
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Michael Herzog, NexB
  - Martin Michlmayr, HP
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Jillayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Brandon Robinson, Cisco
  - Steve Cropper, Cisco
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
