  - Attendance - 13
  - Minutes from 27 Jan meeting approved

## Technical Team Report

  - Gary/Peter created punchlist of key issues that need to be addressed
    before beta.
      - Finalize RDF/XML
      - Clean up Grammer
      - Mesh spreadsheet license list, on-line list and RDF
  - Kate drafted spreadsheet view of SPDX file which Gary is using as
    basis for translation tools. Will circulate.
  - Seem to be on schedule genearlly

## Business Team Report

  - Beta program
      - Good briefing meeting with 4 candidates. Following up wth two
        more.
      - Need coordinator volunteers
  - Starting to address need for end user content developed (doc,
    training, etc.).
  - Next issue in the queue is defining the process to add a license to
    the standard list.

## Legal Team Report

  - Section 5.3 revision is mostly settled. Some final tweaking of field
    names was the last issue.
  - Karen and Rockett are updating LF Member Counsel with the message
    "it's time" to pay attention and weigh in.
  - In process of making recommendations for default license for SPDX
    data in a file and for SPDX tool licensing.

## Cross Functional Issues

  - Tech and Biz teams will meet face to face at Linux Collab Summit
    (Tech pm 4/7, Biz am 4/8)
  - Agreed that SPDX general list should not be for extended
    discussions, which should be directed to respective team lists.

## Action Items

  - Kate/Kim- Draft example for LF Member Counsel; include XML and
    spreadsheet. PENDING
  - MichaelH/Rockett- Write up and share postion on "reporting" vs.
    "interpreting. PENDING
  - MartinM- Report back on \# of people on respective mailing lists.
    DONE, BUT LET'S KEEP UPDATING
  - Kim/Kate- Provide PhilK with paragraph descriptions of Collab Summit
    sessions by 2/17

## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Phil Odence, Black Duck Software
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck Software
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Phil Koltun, Linux Foundation
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Pierre Lapointe, nexB
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Karen Copenhaver, Linux Foundation

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
