## Attendees

  - Kim Weins
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Michael Herzog
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Mark Gisi
  - Brandon Robinson
  - Steve Cropper

## Legal Update from Jilayne

  - Talked about Legal To-Do's
  - Legal team is working on templatizing -- they have a draft of
    guidelines. There are some outstanding issues
  - Need to get going on the license approval process. Biz team is
    owning the process but legal will be participants as well.
  - Jilayne and Adam finalized the last edits on the preamble for the
    data license. Kim to send to community people for feedback
  - Mark Gisi has updated "rationale doc" that explains why we selected
    data license. That doc is not yet on website, but Mark to upload

## Tech Team Update from Gary

  - Work of tech team is focused on the 1.1 spec.
  - They did a review of the draft 1.1 spec and there were a few follow
    up items.
  - Plan is to resolve those issues and update the RDF and the tools by
    the end of Q1.
  - 3 new tools are available that
      - Convert between SPDX Tag and RDF format (both ways)
      - Convert from SPDX to HTML
  - 1.1 Features are:
      - Updated data license to CC0
      - Fix typos
      - Fix the verification codes
      - Add tracking of suppliers
  - Tech team is also starting on the hierarchical/embedded design for
    2.0.

## Biz team update from Kim

  - Website conversion is almost ready to start
      - Web team had a meeting earlier in the week to review the work
        that is done
      - Steve Cropper to schedule a web training for next week to show
        people how to convert content
  - Discussed EclipseCon
      - Protecode is taking the lead to organize a BOF
  - Discussed Software Supply Chain Summit idea
      - The idea is to have an in person 1 day meeting in Bay Area
      - Target date is Fri April 6, right after Collab Summit
      - Invite people from companies in the software supply chain --
        including non-SPDX participants
      - SPDX people could also invite supplychain partners
      - We want to start to socialize and spread SPDX
      - Agenda would need to be developed, but contect would include
        SPDX Basics, End User talks, License info, tools as well as
        discussions
      - Steve Cropper said Cisco may be willing to host. HP may as well.
      - Kim to follow up with LF and let them know.

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
