  - Attendance: 10
  - Minutes of Sept 6 meeting approved.
  - Lead by Phil Odence

## Technical Team Report - Kate

  - Continuing to work through use cases.
  - Peter Williams has left Openlogic. The tech team as well as the
    whole SPDX community officially thank him for his commitment and
    huge contributions to the project.
  - Peter is replaced by Jeff Gran.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - License list
      - Wrapped up FSF list work
      - In process of defining what new license will go in the next
        version. Researching other lists with we'd like to to cover,
        Fedora is on the radar next
      - Version 1.17 is adding 42 licenses to the previous 165
      - Newly agreed to princple: If there is a version of a license on
        the list, we should also have all previous versions. (and
        future, presumably- Editor's Note)
      - Question came up about Freeware/Shareware license. Tabled for
        future meeting with larger group.

## Business Team Report - Jack & Scott

  - Matt Germonprez of U of Neb and a grad student are making progress
    working with FOSSology and SPDX
  - Barriers to Adoption
      - Adoption remains a key focus of the business team.
      - Working on a survey
      - Plan to roll out to SPDX-involved companies as well as other
        companies from FOSSBazaar and LinuxF communites.
  - Ibrahim has come up with some great recruiting ideas.
      - Blocking issues: Need a govenance document (Phil is drafting)
      - Other needs: Roadmap (Jack working), Defined onboarding process.
      - Need a slide deck targeted at recruiting (Phil and Ibrahim
        working)
      - Michael lead discussion about how to work with Linux Foundation.
          - They are happy to help, but don't want to hand over mailing
            lists wholesale.
          - Feels it's important that we track recruiting efforts like a
            sales pipeline; Is looking into using a CRM system to track.
            It is important to recognize that some companies will not
            want recruiting discussion details to be public
      - Need to put some special thought into working with Asian
        companies.

## Cross Functional Issues – Phil

  - Web Site Update
      - Lots of progress on clean up. Now in reasonably credible state,
        though still tweaking
      - Bad links and dead pages are for the most part gone.
      - Tech Team section now consistent with others.
      - Some URLs are confusing/inconsistent, but not worth worrying
        about as Linux Foundation will be revamping site for us shortly.
      - Jack is looking into adding a Contact Us tab.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Jack Manbeck, Texas Instruments
  - Jason Buttura, Cisco
  - Scott Lamons, HP
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Kamyar Emami, Protecode
  - Pierre Lapointe, nexB

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
