  - Attendance: 8
  - Minutes of Oct 18 meeting approved.
  - Lead by Phil Odence

## Technical Team Report - Kate

  - Following update is from Kate via email as she could not attend:
  - Technical team has been looking at the data model for 1.1, with the
    view of reviewing it so we can discuss the 2.0 proposed changesWent
    through a review of the specification with Liang and Matt (UNO),
    prep for explaining fieldsWorking on an overview presentation of
    SPDX and some examples right now for orientation, when draft is
    ready - will pass by biz team to review whether to include in the
    collateral or not.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Need to agree on a "filter" to defvine what gets included or not in
    license list.
  - Consensus has been to stay focused on OSS licenses
  - This discussion has been prompted by a particular license associated
    with Tizen project
  - Draft of filter language will be circulated.

## Business Team Report - Gary

  - Jack has drafted and circulated a Road Map for comment; impacts all
    teams.

## Cross Functional Issues â€“ Phil

  - Web Site Update
      - LF developer has laid out a new structure
      - Martin and Jack are interfaces to LF for this project
      - It looks like SPDX team will be reponsible for moving contents.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Ibrahim Haddad, Linux Foundation
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Kamyar Emami, Protecode
  - Gary O'Neill, SourceAuditor
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Jason Buttura, Cisco
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
