  - Attendance: 13
  - Minutes of August 23 meeting approved.
  - Lead by Phil Odence

## Technical Team Report - Jack standing in for Kate

  - Ed Warnicke has introduced an interesting new scheme for
    "watermarking" files
  - The idea is that a developer combines a small bit of code into their
    file that preserves license and copyright information through
    compilation so that information can be extracted from the binary
  - He's currently running experiements to determine what kind of
    overhead this introduces
  - Could have intersting positive implications for future SPDX
    versions.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - License list
      - Finished scrubbing through the FSF list and have plan in place
        for adding deltas to the SPDX list; pending licenses or on a
        spreadsheet that Jilayne has posted.
      - She's also putting up a mage to mention other groups we are
        coordinating with.
      - Next discussion with be to try to agree on a high level
        statement about the scope of the license list; how broad and
        deep are we trying to go? The legal team will kick off the
        discussion and may need input from the other teams.

## Business Team Report - Jack & Scott

  - Little to update as last week's meeting was cancelled for LinuxCon.
    In its stead was a face to face with about a dozen people that
    focused mostly on technical discussion.
  - 1.1 Press Release was issued at LinuxCon and looked great.
  - The panel discussion at LinuxCon was well received by about 25
    attendees; kudos to Scott for coordinating a very interesting
    session.
  - Ibrahim from Linux Foundation is devoting significant time to SPDX
    and focusing on driving adoption. There's a possiblity of his
    leading a meeting on this topic (phys/virt/hybrid?) in the next
    couple months.

## Cross Functional Issues â€“ Phil

  - Web Site Update
      - Jack has been leading a debug effort.
      - Much work got done at LinuxCon fixing bad links, wrong pages,
        etc and it's substantially cleaned up. That work will continue
        over the next couple weeks.
      - In parallel, the team leads are working on standardizing the
        different team sections
      - Linux Foundation has offered (and we will likely accept) to have
        their contractor re-implement the website on a firmer, more
        modern foundation. Work would begin in mid-October. MartinM is
        working with the rest of the web team to understand
        stability/recoverability implications. Expections are that this
        will be a great step forward on all dimensions.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Jack Manbeck, Texas Instruments
  - Ibrahim Haddad, Linux Foundation
  - Jason Buttura, Cisco
  - Steve Cropper, Cisco
  - Scott Lamons, HP
  - Brandon Robinson, Cisco
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Kamyar Emami, Protecode
  - Adam Cohn, Cisco
  - Pierre Lapointe, nexB

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
