  - Attendance: 10
  - Minutes for 2011/1/26 approved

## Technical Team Report - Gary

  - 2.0 Spec
      - Great progress on hierarchy issue.
      - Gaining agreement on importance of backward compatibility. Goal
        is 100%, but some openness to exceptions (which would have to be
        run by Biz Team and General Meeting)
      - Still concern about tightness of schedule (for August
        completion) but progress is accelerating.
  - 1.1 is very close. Gate is validating the verification algorithm.

## Business Team Report - Kim

  - Website conversion is underway. Aiming for end of month to flip
    switch.
  - End User Event - April 6 in San Jose (after Collab Summit)
      - Cisco hosting.
      - Aiming for 50-60 people.
      - Idea is to bring in new supply chain partners.
      - Educational agenda.
      - 9-2 or 3pm

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - License List Guidelines
      - Guidelines for matching now posted on the web.
      - Discussion going on about whether copyright is part of the
        license.
      - Down to 9-10 issues.
  - License List Format
      - Question is in what form is the "golden" list.
      - Excel limiations on characters in field trucate license text for
        some licenses.
      - Possible solution is include, not text of license, but link to
        text, in spreadasheet.

## Cross Functional Issues – Phil

  - Website Management and Hosting
      - Martin M leading team.
      - Need to define requirements first, solution second.
  - Collab Summit
      - Straw pole indicatd 10-15 participants from companies
        represented in this meeting.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck Software
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Pierre LaPonte, nexB
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Martin Michlmayr, HP
  - Steve Cropper, Cisco
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Mark Gisi, WindRiver
  - Michael Herzog, nexB

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
