  - Attendance: 7
  - Minutes of Oct 4 meeting approved.
  - Led by Kirsten Newcomer

## Technical Team Report - Gary

  - Completed review of use cases.
  - Have started modeling phase
      - Will create model of v1.1 and review so that everyone has the
        same baseline to work from
      - Then will start building model for 2.0 and vet against use cases
        for 2.0

## Legal Team Report - Tom

  - Last two meetings have been lightly attended. Only 4 folks this
    week.
  - Some issues have surfaced with the GPL exceptions on the SPDX
    license list
      - Legal team is looking for a volunteer to review for correctness
  - Team discussed potential policy around licenses in different
    languages. Some initial thoughts from the team
      - Official language of the license list site is English
      - A small number of licenses have been originally published in a
        different language; for those cases, may make sense to publish
        in the original language
      - Policy is still under discussion

## Business Team Report - Jack

  - No meeting last week. Current activities include
  - Recruitment
      - Continuing to work on recruitment plan & roadmap
      - Team thinks this will be ready for review soon
      - Team is looking for a volunteer to write the On Boarding
        document
      - Pierre has downloaded the free version of KarmaCRM which might
        be useful for tracking recruitment efforts
          - Free version is limited to two users. One option might be to
            create a shared email address for SPDX team use. Business
            team wil discuss at next meeting.

## Cross Functional Issues – Team

  - Web Site Update
      - It's time to get ready for Linux Foundation conversion
          - Need two SPDX team members to work with webmasters from the
            Linux Foundation
          - Recommendation is that Martin Michlymeyer be one and that
            the other team member be someone who contributed to the
            previous web-site revamp for continuinty.
  - SPDX plugin for Fossology
      - Matt Germonprez (U of Neb) is making good progress and hopes to
        be able to share more broadly in about a month.

## Attendees

  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Pierre Lapointe, nexB
  - Jack Manbeck, Texas Instruments
  - Kamyar Emami, Protecode
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Scott Lamons, HP

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
