  - Attendance: 11
  - Meeting lead by Jack Manbeck.

## Technical Team Report - Kate

  - 2.0 work
      - Still working through use cases. May have them complete before
        LinuxCon.
  - 1.1 work
      - Close to completion. Looking to get the document finalized
        before LinuxCon 2012 at the end of August. The press release for
        1.1 is being worked on and a draft needs to be sent in to the
        Linux Foundation soon. Kate will finalize the approval status
        for 1.1 at the next tech team meeting.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - License list
      - Legal team is working through expanding the list with new
        licenses. There is a spreadsheet of proposed licenses in their
        work area and the status.
  - Other
      - Tech team had asked the legal team for their input on mandatory
        vs. optional fields and the spdx 2.0 use case for spdx-lite.

## Business Team Report - Jack

  - Discussed web site and business tem pages. Ibrahim had mentioned
    they used a contractor to do the open momo pages. Business team
    wants to explore that as an option for the SPDX site. Ibrahim and
    Steve will work on getting preliminary costs.
  - Ibrahim has been attending the different work group meetings and
    meeting and talking with people for the past three weeks. He has a
    number of proposals that he would like to make.
  - Press Release for 1.1 – Scott has a set of bullet points up on the
    site. Kate is working on giving him input with respect to1.0 vs.
    .1.1. Jilayne has provided some wording on the reason for the move
    from PDDL to CC0 for the license. She will also talk with Karen to
    get either some background on why the change was done or a quote.
    Scott asked whether we should have tools vendors and open source
    projects starting to use SPDX give quotes for the release. Sounded
    like a good idea and he will move ahead with that.

## Cross Functional Issues – All

  - Discussed status of website and the issues. Jack Manbeck will create
    a wiki page to track the web site issues and closure of items.
  - Ibrahim from the Linux Foundation has started working on a number of
    proposals to help SPDX, including one around Governance. Looking for
    a good time to discuss his input with the thinking that a F2F is the
    best. There was some talk about starting to have discussions at
    LinuxCon and then also at a proposed face to face in either
    September or October of this year, location TBD. For LinuxCon, Scott
    will see if the HP room is available. If not, he will work with
    Ibrahim and the LF to see if we can get another conference room one
    night.
  - Still not clear how many people are going to LinxCon. Scott will
    re-forward the link on the SPDX site so we can see a list of who is
    going.
  - Steve stated that we should publish a list of face to face meetings
    for SPDX every year along with agendas. There was general consensus
    that was a good idea.
  - Jilayne brought up a discussion she had with a developer who put out
    a favorable blog about SPDX. As a team we discussed whether we
    should have links from the SPDX website to items like this. Sounded
    like a good idea.

## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Gary O'Neall, SourceAuditor
  - Jack Manbeck, Texas Instruments
  - Ibrahim Haddad, Linux Foundation
  - Kamyer Emami, Protecode
  - Adam Cohn, Cisco
  - Steve Cropper, Cisco
  - Mark Gisi, Windriver
  - Scott Lamons, HP

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
