  - Attendance: 10
  - May 17 minutes approved

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Finalizing work defining the team's mission purpose of License List
    that were published two weeks ago. Please comment now or hold your
    peace. Latest draft:
      - **Legal Work Group description:***"The SPDX Legal Team supports
        and provides recommendations to the SPDX working groups
        regarding licensing issues for the specification itself;
        maintains the SPDX License List; and promotes the SPDX
        specification to the legal community at-large."*
      - **SPDX License List description:***"The SPDX License List is a
        list of commonly found open source software licenses for the
        purposes of being able to easily and efficiently identify such
        licenses in an SPDX document. The SPDX License List includes a
        standardized short identifier, full name for each license,
        vetted license text, other basic information, and a canonical
        permanent URL. By providing a short identifier, users can
        efficiently refer to a license without having to redundantly
        reproduce the full license."*
  - Have been providing input to 1.1 spec to incorporate latest thinking
    on License List and to ensure consistent vocabulary.
  - Working to make sure new website content is up to date.
  - Turning attention back to matching guidelines. Aiming to reach
    closure with 1.1 release (about a month)

## Business Team Report - Scott/Jack

  - Business Team is eager for feedback from other team's on
    Mission/Vision. Looking to come to closure in the next few weeks.
    Expectation is that this will help with prioritization of use cases
    for the 2.0 effort. Latest version (embedded in a set of slides):
    ![Spdx-mission-review-may-2012-v2.pdf](Spdx-mission-review-may-2012-v2.pdf
    "Spdx-mission-review-may-2012-v2.pdf")
  - Also, pulling together a description of Business Team's function.
    Scott has drafted and will be working on this in the next Business
    Team meeting.

## Technical Team Report - Kate

  - 2.0 work
      - A little over half the use cases have been fleshed out. Others
        are considering in a "graveyard" unless more work gets done on
        them.
      - [Technical\_Team/Use\_Cases/2.0](Technical_Team/Use_Cases/2.0 "wikilink")
  - 1.1 work
      - Hoping to bring to closure in the next few weeks.
      - Near final draft to be posted next week, then open for two weeks
        of comment.

## Cross Functional Issues â€“ Phil

  - Website Update - Pierre
      - The effort has been rejuvinated. Content is moving to the new
        staging area.
      - Web team is ready to flip the switch when content is set. No
        date set.
      - Pierre is confirming that Steve is prepared to move wholesale
        sections (past meeting minutes, License List, etc.)
  - LinuxCon Papers
      - Scott submitting 1.1 update proposal
      - Gary has submitted a proposal for talking about the OSS tools

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck Software
  - Pierre LaPonte, nexB
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Scott Lamons, HP
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Chuck Gaudreau, Protecode
  - Gary O'Neall, SourceAuditor
  - Mark Gisi, WindRiver

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
