  - Attendance: 15
  - Minutes of August 9 meeting approved.
  - Lead by Phil Odence

## Technical Team Report - Kate

  - 1.1 work
      - Just finalizing a few typos.
      - Tech team is signed off.
      - General meeting attendees all agreed to call the doc final after
        typos corrected.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - License list
      - The focus of the last meeting was working through the FSF
        license list with an eye towards adding most items on the list
        to the current SPDX standard list.
      - Work is still in process.
  - Data license
      - Karen wrote up an excellent position statement on why we changed
        the data license in 1.1.
      - Jiilayne will get it up on the website and Scott is looking into
        providing the link in the 1.1 press release.

## Business Team Report - Jack & Scott

  - 1.1 Press Release
      - Working with Linux Foudation PR group to finalize.
      - There's a desire to get a list of companies that are using SPDX,
        but this will likely ge difficult in the time available.
        Possible alternatives:
          - Quotes from one or two companies
          - List of companies that have been involved in the development
            (which is already more or less public)
  - Survey
      - The team has started a discussion about sending out a survey to
        understand attitudes towards, interest in, and adoption of SPDX
        to help drive adoption efforts.

## Cross Functional Issues â€“ Phil

  - Web Site Update
      - New site is up and running.
      - Still working through some minor issues; a team will focus on
        this at LinuxCon
  - Face 2 Face
      - Ibrahim is proposing a face to face meeting outside the context
        of a conference in late Sept/early Oct
      - We took a straw poll of who could make it. Some can, but several
        team leads are questionable.
      - Looking into range of possiblities from full physical meeting to
        full virtual event
      - Ibrahim is asking folks who have indicated they could come to
        add their physical locations to help target a venue.
  - Linux Foundation website help
      - The LF has generously offered to assign a web consutant to
        rebuild the website from scratch using LF templates. (see Open
        Mama site for example)
      - Work could commence in October 15
      - Steve Cropper, Martin Michlmayr and Jack Manback are evaluating
        benefits v. staying with our already recently overhauled site.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Gary O'Neall, SourceAuditor
  - Jack Manbeck, Texas Instruments
  - Ibrahim Haddad, Linux Foundation
  - Jason Buttura, Cisco
  - Steve Cropper, Cisco
  - Mark Gisi, Windriver
  - Scott Lamons, HP
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Tom Incorvia, MicroFocus
  - Brandon Robinson, Cisco
  - Martin Michlmayr, HP

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
