  - Attendance: 10
  - Minutes of Nov meeting approved
  - Lead by Phil Odence

## Biz Team Report - Scott

  - Focus remains adoption
  - Documentation- Working with Mark Gisi's process for developing new
    documentation
  - Tagging- Looking for more input on the page Jack created
    <http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/SPDX_Meta_Tags>

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - License Exceptions
      - Mark G still has the action to call a cross-team meeting to
        discuss possibly revamping the way we handle common license
        exceptions.
      - Tom Vitale had done a great job assembling a collection (large)
        of GPL exceptions.
  - License LIst
      - Fedora List- continuing to work through to identify possible
        adds to the SPDX License List
      - Will likely push next rev of license list to after first of the
        year.

## Tech Team Report - Kate

  - V2.0
      - Complete focus of team.
      - No more meetings until January

## Cross Functional Issues â€“ Phil

  - OMG meeting, Dec 11 (on standardizing OSS license mgmt business
    practices) looks to be attracting two dozen people. Phil to speak.
    Several others from SPDX to attend.
  - Kirsten has started to share a 2.0 requirements doc for feedbcak.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Scott Lamons, HP
  - Pierre Lapointe, nexB
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Gary O'Neill, Source Auditor
  - Kate Stewart, Linaro
  - Jilanyne Lovejoy, SPDX
  - Matt Germonprez

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
