  - Attendance: 10
  - Minutes of Jan 10 meeting approved.
  - Lead by Phil Odence

## Business Team Report - Jack/Scott

  - Just had first meeting of year
  - Finalized and posted SPDX roadmap doc
    [Business\_Team/Roadmap/2013](Business_Team/Roadmap/2013 "wikilink")
  - Planning for Collab Summit
      - Reserviing SPDX room for at least one day
      - Working to mesh with Summit agenda which is still a little fluid
      - Planing on a 'plug and play' session involving SPDX, open source
        and commercial tools.
      - Several presentations submitted for Summit including a tools
        presentation from Mark and Gary
  - Trying to get more direct involvement from Matt Germonprez. Jack
    will invite him to speak at the next General Meeting.

## Tech Team Report - Kate

  - Working through 2.0 use cases.
      - Looking at how many could be handled in a 1.2 release.
      - Down to 12 use cases that still require discussion
      - Progress, but slow
      - Link to use cases:
        [Technical\_Team/Use\_Cases/2.0](Technical_Team/Use_Cases/2.0 "wikilink")

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Good organizational progress with assigning individuals (other than
    just Jilayne) to shepard various projects.
      - Still need someone to own matching guidelines, key project.
  - License list
      - Going through exercise of comparing to Fedora list (as we did
        with FSF), identifying gaps and closing as appropriate/possible.
  - The discussion of Public Domain being included in the license list
    keeps coming up. Jilayne is in the process of posting the logic
    behind the decision.

## Cross Functional Issues â€“ Phil

  - Web Site Update - Jack
      - Still planning to cut over to new site by Collab Summit
      - Wiki conversion remains unknown.
          - MartinM is researching
          - Jack is not too worried and has backup plans if it can't be
            completely automated
      - Feeling is that current structure lends itself to move to new
        structure and Wiki.
          - Jack is reviewing architectural work that we did when LF
            first constructed
      - Matt Germonprez has offered to help with site in general.
      - Jack still wants to identify admins; still needs to create job
        descriptions
      - Question came up as to whether one can subscribe to pages in the
        new Wiki...yes

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Gary O'Neill, SourceAuditor
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Adam Cohn, Cisco
  - Scott Lamons, HP
  - Kate Stewart, Linaro
  - Steve Cropper, Cisco

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
