  - Most of the team leads were not able to join, so we curtailed the
    meeting
  - These 'virtual minutes' compile status reports from each team.

## Business Team Report - Jack/Scott

  - The SPDX Survey was closed and the results were compiled. A few of
    the highlights:
      - Over 100 people responded
      - Punchline was that more than 75% thought it was important/very
        important to have a standard for exchanging license information.
      - Good representation world wide.
      - Good mix of big and small companies.
      - You can view the results here:
        <http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Business_Team/Surveys>
  - The next step with the Survey results is to see what can be
    actionable and what to do.
  - The University of Omaha Nebraska is working with Yocto and SPDX to
    integrate their Fossology + SPDX instance into the Yocto build
    process.
  - Phil Odence and Scott Lamons submitted an article to IFOSSLR on he
    state of SPDX.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - 5/23 meeting was a joint call with tech team to discuss specifics
    and implementation of license matching guidelines
      - we will use regular expression language for mark-up; Daniel
        German offered to take on mark-up task with guidance on what to
        mark-up from legal team
      - Legal team to track what licenses have been done and progress,
        etc.
      - Gary and Daniel to sort out other implementation specifics

<!-- end list -->

  - 6/6 meeting – mostly back to regular programming. Went over the new
    license tracking page and made updates
      - had request for Artistic Perl license to be added: this is an
        outstanding OSI issue. Email to OSI was resent to try and get
        this resolved
      - Need volunteers to do research on a few other specific licenses
      - GPL exceptions research progressing – Tom V. to report on next
        call

## Tech Team Report - Kate

  - Bugzilla now has 1.2 Specification target.
  - Tech group has spent last 2 weeks identifying selected set of bugs
    from prior input (Collab, bugzilla, etc.) that will be targetted for
    1.2
  - UNO making good progress getting command line version of spdx
    generator available for YOCTO. Request is to get it moved up to
    public repository now.
  - CFP for LinuxCon is June 17. Gary to discuss with Matt about
    possible paper collaboration.

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
