  - Attendance: 11
  - Lead by Phil Odence

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of May meeting approved

## Biz Team Report - Jack

  - Summer of Code- Lots of discussion on the Tech Team mailing list
  - Website- Jack and Matt are adding a page regarding University
    participation
  - LinuxCon- Working on getting a room
  - Website Statistics- Scott Lamons has volunteered to analyze on an
    ongoing basis and report to the Business Team
  - Vertical whitepapers in progress
  - Europe
      - Mikael delivered a workshop at Siemens
          - They didn't understand license request process
          - Mikael encouraged them to participate in SPDX
      - GENIVI- Mikael also promoted SPDX at the GENIVI All Members
        Meeting

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Focus is on 2.0 deliverables
      - Fedora list
          - Worked through the list completely
          - Just a few remaining questions
      - New exceptions list is in process
      - In process of reviewing the website for how to present all the
        new developments

## Tech Team Report - Gary

  - Very productive month
      - Kate heavily into spec drafting
      - Bug reports all combed through and assigned
      - All big issues addressed
  - Gary and Mark agreed that we are "on track" for delivery at LinuxCon
  - No clear due date for a draft from Kate

## Cross Functional Issues – Phil

  - Working with Apache
      - Gary developed a Maven plugin to auto-generate an SPDX file
      - Getting some help from ASF members, but not a lot of pull
      - Now looking to attached to another group within Maven

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Jilanyne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Matt Germonprez, UNO
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Paul Madick, HP
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Mikael Söderberg, Pelagicore
  - Scott Lamons, HP

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
