  - Attendance: 6
  - Lead by Phil Odence

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of Nov meeting approved

## Cross Functional Issues â€“ Phil

  - Postponed presentation from Valeo to January 8

## Biz Team Report - Phil

  - Mostly focused on Collab Summit agenda
      - Need to have rough agenda before holidays
      - Coordinating with Open Chain who will share our room for 1/2 day
      - Plugfest will likely take different form
          - Anticipating tooling will not be fully in place
          - More manual testing
      - Discussion: Ideas for sessions
          - SPDX 101 and 102 (the latter being update on 2.0)
          - Update on License List
          - 2.0 Tooling

## Legal Team Report - Paul

  - Beta LL list (targeting Dec 18) to include
      - Continuing to add new licenses
      - Deprecated licenses
      - Exceptions list & some FAQs
      - Templates

## Tech Team Report - Scott

  - Heads down reviewing 2.0 spec
      - Cleaning up
      - Adding/improving examples
  - In pretty good shape

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Paul Maddick, HP
  - Mike Dolan, Linux Foundation
  - Pierre LaPointe, nexB
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
