  - Attendance: 15+
  - Lead by Phil Odence

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of October meeting approved

## Cross Functional Issues, Special Presentation from Polarsys – Phil

  - Presentation from Polarsys COTSAQ project
    <http://polarsys.org/proposals/cotsaq>
      - OSS tool for managing software BoMs
      - SPDX connections
          - First will use SPDX License List
          - Connecting with code scanners through SPDX

## Biz Team Report - Jack

  - Last call cancelled. Call in an hour.
  - Current focus is revamping the website homepage to guide new users

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Working through 2.0 task list
  - Syncing with tech team schedule for release
  - Cross team topic- Standard Header field in list that applies to a
    subset of licenses (e.g. GPL, Apache)
      - Proposal is to remove the field as it becomes problematic with
        2.0
      - Notice will go out to tech team/legal team

## Tech Team Report - Kate

  - Fleshed out external SPDX document reference syntax. (currently sec
    3.5, but may spin off to own section) and working on self reference
    (2.4)
  - Finishing off clarifying examples for relationship references (sec
    8)
  - Extended the recognized checksums to include SHA256, MD5 (sec. 4.9,
    6.4)
  - Decided to start off separate spec for inline references rather than
    include it in Appendix.
  - What's up for this month...
      - Gluing it all together and making available for other reviewers
      - Near term schedule: Draft Nov 14, feedback by Dec 1.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Pierre Lapointe, nexB
  - Gary O’Neill, SourceA
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Matt Germonprez, UNO
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Mike Dolan, Linux Foundation
  - Paul Maddick, HP
  - Michael Herzog, nexB

<!-- end list -->

  - Pierre G, AirBus
  - Others from project COTSAQ

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
