  - Attendance: 7
  - Lead by Phil Odence

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of Sept meeting approved

## Cross Functional Issues – Phil

  - 2.0 Schedule
      - Proposed reset of phased release to be ratified by Tech Team -
        roughly:
          - Release candidate targeted early Nov
          - Presentations to and feedback for OpenChain group- Dec
          - RC 2 January; tooling development in parallel
          - Final Release at CollabSummit in Feb

## Biz Team Report - Jack

  - Website
      - University Participation page is up
      - Looking at Google Analytics
          - Pointed to need to revamping front page to make it
            roll-based
          - Continuing to look for improvements for website
  - 2.0 Press Release on hold

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Call today agenda
  - Focus is what’s needed for 2.0
      - Need to work out license list release timing implications
      - How do we have pre-release version of LL?

## Tech Team Report - Kate

  - No meeting this week
  - Still cleaning up relationship types, license types
  - Email discussion about new release schedule and approach.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Pierre LaPonte, nexB
  - Scott Lamons, HP
  - Matt Germonprez, UNO
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
