  - Attendance: 6
  - Lead by Phil Odence

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of Aug meeting approved

## Tech Team Report - Kate

  - LinuxCon
      - Productive session
          - Resolve how to handle mapping between model and tag value
            for SPDX elements
          - ID’ed issues with relationship types and file types
              - Subsequently addressed in tech team meetings
              - May need to drop some use cases when things were not
                neat to represent
          - All recorded in GoogleDoc
      - Just as productive hallway conversations
          - About relationship issues
          - Fedora
              - Session on FOSS governance; TomC said that Red Hat was
                on hold for now
              - TC says they are aligned with unifying license names
              - Adoption waiting for upsteams
      - Interest in SPDX participation

## Biz Team Report - Jack

  - Meeting last week
      - Mostly recapping LinuxCon
      - Open Chain participation
      - Need to get quotes for press release; will address at next
        week’s meeting

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - No update

## Cross Functional Issues – Phil

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Kate Stewart, Linaro
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
