  - Attendance: 7
  - Lead by Phil Odence

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of June meeting approved

## Biz Team Report - Jack

  - No meeting last week due to vacations

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - V1.20 is done
      - Should be posted within a couple days
      - Email will go out to describe changes
          - Large release with most of Fedora list added
          - 306 licenses, 91 new licenses including 81 from Fedora list
      - More uniformity in display
  - The is a question about the value of the Standard Header Field
      - Team will be floating question of whether we should deprecate

## Tech Team Report - Gary

  - 2.0 Progress
      - Kate continuing drafting 2.0 spec
      - Gary has drafted the RDF-specific language, which has raised
        some issues.

## Cross Functional Issues â€“ Phil

  - LinuxCon
      - Looks like a solid group of 10 folks will meet in Chicago
      - Meetings will be Wedneday 9:30-3:30
  - Working with Apache
      - Slow progress
      - Trying to attach to group at Apache that would work with Gary on
        plugin for creating SPDX docs for Apache projects
      - Looks like the best path is to start up the plugin as an
        incubator project; we need to confirm a sponsor

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Jilanyne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Pierre LaPonte, nexB
  - Scott Lamons, HP
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
