  - Attendance: 12
  - Lead by Phil Odence

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of Oct meeting approved/

## Siemens - Oliver Fendt

  - Open Source Group
      - Deals with compliance issues
      - Made up of members from all parts of the company
      - Has been going for 2.5 years
      - Recognized SPDX early in their existence
          - Took a close look
          - First interest was in the license list
              - Requested some license for list; some successful, some
                not
              - Participated in discussion about how to handle license
                exceptions
      - SPDX 2.0 was coming on line
          - Voted internally to adopt SPDX
          - And to start requiring SPDX docs from their suppliers
      - Got involved with FOSSology
          - Implemented initial SPDX 2.0 in FOSSology
              - Just RDF, not yet Tag Value
      - Became aware of process of development of standard
          -   - Concerned about the direction, specifically snippet
                discussion
              - Concerns that it contradicts vision/mission
              - Minimizing costs across the supply chain
              - Concerned that granularity of snippets and that it’s
                hard to say, unless you are the developer
              - So, worries about usability
              - And that it adds interpretation, for example, Black Duck
                Protex requires the human to interpret
              - Also, since there is no open source tool that does
                snippets, adoption may be limited
        
          - Would be interested in adding other sorts of information
            like ECC info
      - They are currently using the latest/greatest FOSSology and
        encouraging suppliers to do same
      - Starting to see projects using SPDX short IDs in files
      - Suppliers normally don’t deliver source code; Siemens requires
        that they assert that the comply w/copyrights
          - So they typically don’t scan source.
          - They use FOSSo
          - And they encourage SPDX to supply the info

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary

  - Busy refining external identifiers proposal
      - Aim was a single field
      - Thought is to break into multiple fields, source of identifier
        and the domain
      - Wrestling with the difference between security IDs (NVD/CPE) and
        repos (e.g. Debian)
  - Also, recently revisited snippets proposal
      - Now is a good time to weigh in.
  - Tools
      - Active; Sebastian Schubert has been a big contributor recently
          - Mostly fixes
          - 2.1 will add some work
          - UNO repos also very active

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Cross functional work with tech team on templates and matching
      - recent joint call, apologies for 10 person limit on call; will
        address
      - Looking to change maintenance process
      - Lots of good discussion about implementing matching guidelines
      - plan is for another joint call in early December

## Biz Team Report - Jack

  - Working with LF on a new look feel for website
      - In parallel, changing some of the navigation.
      - Looks like it’s been delayed, so probably 2-3 weeks before
        rollout
      - Some progress already; looking good so far
  - In process of changing name of team to Outreach Team
      - Will roll out with new website
  - Eclipse Foundation
      - Might be interesting group to speak with about SPDX

## Cross Functional Topics - Phil

  - See Jack’s brief blog on SPDX.org pointing must read blog by Eric
    Raymond on SPDX

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Oliver Fendt, Siemens
  - Tarek Jomaa. ARM
  - Gary O’Neill, SourceAuditor
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Richard Christie, ARM
  - Pierre LaPointe, nexB
  - Sami Atabani, ARM
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Michael Herzog- nexB
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
