  - Attendance: 12
  - Lead by Phil Odence

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of August meeting approved

## Open Compliance Program - Kate

  - Motivations for relaunch:
      - Information on the web site is stale. (FOSSbazaar community
        isn't active anymore, etc.)
      - Recognition we need to make useful information more accessible
        to developers
      - The OSS world is changing- cybersecurity for example
      - FOSSology is coming into LF as a project
  - What’s happening
      - New look, new content
      - Highlighting open standards that help with compliance
      - Funneling people to projects and workgroups
      - Highlighting OSS and commercial tools that support SPDX
          - FOSSology will help with upstream adoption
          - Hope is to attract developers
      - Updating educational materials
          - Currently only targeted at large organizations
          - Putting the focus on what the developers need to know and
            will find useful.
  - Will be rolled out and announced in first part of Q4
      - New logos and branding for compliance
      - Target to get SPDX pages lined up to take advantage by start of
        October.
      - Current pillar approach will persist, but details under will
        change/consolidate
  - New Logo for SPDX
      - Group preference is for Option 2
  - Kate is looking for help in identifying companies and products using
    SPDX and the License List
      - Please send Kate pointer to any projects you're aware of that
        consume or produce SPDX
      - Jack suggested starting with what's on the SPDX page, and
        building up from there.

<!-- end list -->

  - Would like to get 2.0 spec rendered as a web page
      - Jack has starting point, Kate volunteers to help clean up
      - Discussion as to future representations of spec.
  - LF will help with other aspects of branding now that logo decision
    made.
      - Powerpoint templates, etc.
      - Style guide, fonts, etc?
  - LC Europe Add on Event
      - Supply chain mini summit on October 8
      - Stefano will present on Debsource DB work
      - Also presenting will be Uday from UNO
      - Rough agenda and signup sheet will be going up soon

## Tech Team Report - Kate

  - New development over the summer
      - Debsources DB now generating SPDX. work done as GSOC project by
        Orestis advised by Stefano Zacchiroli
      - some discussion about adding sha256 as alternative to sha1 for
        manditory field.
  - 2.1 Progress
      - External package proposal from Yev reviewed and is slated to be
        included.
      - External ID proposal has some feedback on Debian Repository
        aspect which will be discussed on spdx-tech list
      - Some further work on Security inclusion for 2.1
      - Snippet work coming back to the fore of active discussions.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Some bug reports on template markups
      - Maintenance is getting burdensome
      - Triggered discussion about how to set License List up for
        multiple contributions
      - Somewhat like an open source project
      - Active work going on to define how it would work
  - Other discussions
      - MarkG working on proposal for handling standard headers
          - Mark up existing
          - Concept of suggested header for licenses that don’t have
            standard

## Biz Team Report - Jack

  - Mostly focused on website changes

## Cross Functional Topics - Phil

  - 
## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Michael Herzog- nexB
  - Pierre LaPointe, nexB
  - Yev Bronshteyn, Black Duck
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Hassib Khanafer, Protecode
  - Matt Germonprez, UNO
  - Brian Gartner, SuSE

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
