  - Attendance: 7
  - Lead by Phil Odence

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of Nov meeting approved

## Tech Team Report - Gary

  - Only 2 tech meetings due to Thanksgiving
  - Code Snippets
      - Candidate proposal in GoogleDocs for Review
      - Background
          - A bit controversial due to legit concern that it adds a lot
            of effort
          - Identification at the line level requires substantial extra
            work
      - So, snippets are optional
      - Decision driven by important use case- Java script files
          - As they tend to bundle together a number of downloadable
            chunks in one file
      - For many other use cases, it may not be used much
      - Implementation
          - Just added snippet level similar to Package and File
              - Additionally adds byte range
              - Snippets relate to files analogously to how files relate
                to packages
  - External ID discussion is back on the table with snippet work
    starting to wind down
  - Tools
      - A lot of good community contribution
          - individuals from a variety of organizations- Linux, other
            open source (eg NPM community), some users (e.g. Black Duck)
      - Should be releasing a new rev of the SPDX tools in the next few
        weeks
      - Question: relation to Stefano’s work with Debian tooling
        described at LinuxCon Europe
          - Enabling Debian copyright files to auto-gen SPDX files
          - Gary will discuss with Kate

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul

  -   - Went over the list of license and exceptions list
      - Added 2 or 3 licenses and some exceptions
      - Entertaining new proposal for mark up format
          - involved Tech Team as well
          - needs to be resurrected

## Outreach Team Report - Jack

  - New Website
      - Work was put on hold by LF for some higher priority work
      - Should have something staged before the end of the year
      - Front page will be a big improvement
      - Early 2016 launch is targeted, but we will need to evaluate with
  - Working on outreach plan
      - targeting groups and conferences

## Cross Functional Topics - Phil

  - Always interested in guest speakers for upcoming meetings
      - Please come to Phil with ideas about organizations who are
        willing to do short/informal presentations on what they are
        doing with SPDX

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Gary O’Neill, SourceAuditor
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Dave Marr, Qualcomm
  - Dave McLaughlin, Rogue Wave
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Paul Madick, Dimension Data

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
