  - Attendance: 10
  - Lead by Phil Odence

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of June meeting approved

## Tech Team Report - Kate & Gary

  - Focus has been on how to add external identifiers
      - Packages (for which there is no SPDX file)
      - Security
  - Planning to get back to snippets in the next month
  - Folder is up for the [LinuxCon NA bake
    off](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0Bx7GoSv9AWpQfkV6czJ3V041NGpOS2o5VVpPS256R0xSQlpEdnlkejRIczBRZWRfU2NWY0k)
      - Prep is already generating good feedback and conversation
      - Please sign up if you're interested in participating: [signup
        form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1gRZe7vymgliCJMrELfJCso8o0WcOpPHZtgTVfO4K8eM/viewform?usp=send_form)
  - Tooling
      - Tools should be ready to go for bakeoff
          - Try out new ‘verify’ command
          - Bugs can go to the Tools mailing list or get logged in the
            bug systerm
      - FOSSology now has a beta release generating SPDX RDF directly
          - They are looking for testers

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Activity on Fedora mailing list about using SPDX identifiers
      - Kate has been responding to straighten out some misunderstanding
  - Working on standard headers
      - Mark G keeping up draft
      - For license that have no prescribed header, discussing whether
        we will recommend
  - Jilayne’s talk accepted to LinuxCon Europe

## Biz Team Report - Jack

  - Slow progress on revamp of website
      - Moving company logos to Participation menu
      - Adding Adoption section and links

## Cross Functional Topics - Phil

  - Linux Foundation is rebranding Open Compliance Program, which may
    impact SPDX brand.
      - Logos may change and trying to tie into new initiatives
  - LinuxCon Europe
      - Will likely be more of a focus on Compliance
      - Adding a Thursday session on Supply Chain / OpenChain (details
        forthcoming)
  - Mailing List
      - Lost admin for mailing lists and wiki
      - Mailing lists will be handled by team chairs
      - Still need someone to manage the Wiki; Kate raised hand (once
        trained).
  - Always looking for special presentations for the General Meeting

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Gary O’Neill, SourceAuditor
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Michael Herzog, nexB
  - Pierre LaPointe, nexB
  - Yev Bronshteyn, Black Duck
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
