  - Attendance: 12
  - Lead by Phil Odence

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of Feb meeting approved

## Special Guest Star - Camille Moulin, Inno3

  - SPDX license list and expressions
      - Most dependency management solutions include licensing info
          - So you can extract and process the information
          - Most clients aren’t using this approach, rather they use
            scanners like Black Duck, Palamida, Protecode
      - The dependency manager approach
          - This approach is not as accurate as code scanners
          - No information at the sub level package
          - Depends on quality metadata
      - Metadata quality
          - 30% of all packages have no license data
      - SPDX Maturity
          - Still a young project
          - License expressions were a key addition
          - Need to be clear on license version numbers
          - SPDX is already adopted by most package manager,
            particularly newer ones
          - Some useful tools are available
      - Q\&A
          - What improvements in SPDX are required?
              - He suggest separating License name from version number
                as separate attributes

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary

  - Specification Update:
      - meetings over last month spent continuing to refine the External
        Reference proposal from Bill and Yev.
      - Its been refactored a couple of couple of time, and active
        discussion is ongoing.
      - Introduced Draft version of Appendix on how to specify
        "SPDX-License-Expression:" in file comments.
      - Summarized information on WIKI and input received from mail
        list. Team wants to make sure wording
      - at top makes it clear that if a license has a standard header,
        that header should be used.
  - Tools Update:
      - None this month

## Outreach Team Report - Jack

  - Website
      - Still waiting on LF to update
  - Webinars
      - Just starting a regular series of Webinars
      - Jilayne was “volunteered” talk about the license list as the
        initial one
      - Talking to LF about hosting

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Big Update: Templates Rehab
      - Have reviewed guidelines and mark-up method and implementation
          - Guidelines were human-friendly, not machine
          - Fairly major overhaul back end
          - Much better handling of single source than was possible with
            spreadsheet
      - Better for machines
      - Enabling others to contribute
      - Easier to maintain
  - OSI
      - Have synced up our new license process
      - Our heads up had been coming late, after their URLs were set up
      - Now we can pick short ID first

## Cross Functional Topics - Phil

  - Collab meeting: Walk through of the 2.1 SPEC changes in a combined
    document.
      - All Day Wednesday
      - Thursday
          - Morning OpenChain- Trying to wrap up specification effort
          - Afternoon- FOSSology- Working through what’s working/what’s
            not and infrastructure
      - <http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/collaboration-summit/program/about>
  - Google SoC
      - SPDX along was not accepted
      - LF was, so we may be able to piggyback

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Yev Bronshteyn, Black Duck
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Pierre LaPointe, nexB
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Michael Herzog- nexB
  - Dave Marr, Qualcomm
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Camille Moulin, Inno3
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
