  - Attendance: 11
  - Lead by Phil Odence
  - Minutes of Nov meeting approved

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary

  - Spec
      - Has been focusing on coding up best practices for creating a
        Notices file
          - Will need some input from the Legal Team, probably a joint
            meeting
          - Output will be pseudo-code which could be the basis for a
            tools (basis is sparkle queries)
      - 2.1 is out there; no current bugs reported
          - Kate gave a presentation on 2.1 in Yokahama; will get to
            Jack for posting on website
  - Tooling
      - All upgraded to 2.1
      - No bugs reported
      - Python library being upgraded
          - Useful for implementing SPDX in a Python-based sw tool
  - 2017 Goals Brainstorm
      - Tooling to make quality of licensing more visible
          - Mark G started this work
          - The idea is to grade a project, based on SPDX file, for how
            complete the licensing is
  - Looking to get plug-ins adopted into communities
      - Apache and Eclipse
  - Web based tools
      - Current java tools involve installing java environment
      - e.g. Past a license into a webpage and have it matched to an
        SPDX template
  - Discuss pros/cons of moving to single format
      - JSON- Happy medium between tag value and RDF
  - Write a git plug-in for generating SPDX docs
      - Could then grade
  - Another Google Summer of Code Project

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul

  - How to leverage git hub for document maintenance
  - xml work
      - Still plugging away
      - Need to assess where we are in Thursday’s call
  - License list
      - No Sept release
      - Some requests have trickled in
  - 2017 Goals Brainstorm
      - Big thing is getting the XML templates up
      - Getting up and running on GitHub
      - Make sure notice files work is accurate
      - Upgrading the license expressions language
      - Supportive of license match Web App

## Outreach Team Report - Jack

  - A few meetings have been missed
  - Website is up
  - Outlining documentation needs
  - 2017 Goals Brainstorm
      - Do a survey of companies using supply chains - understand what
        they are doing wrt gathering license data
          - Could use other existing groups such as Open Chain

## Cross Functional Topics - Phil

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Paul Madick, Dimension Data
  - Gary O’Neill, SourceAuditor
  - Tarek Jamal, ARM
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Alexios Zavras, Intel
  - Michael Herzog- nexB
  - Philippe Ombrédanne- nexB

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
