  - Attendance: 9
  - Lead by Phil Odence

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of Dec meeting approved

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary

  - Good progress on spec
      - Settled on approaches for both
          - Snippets
          - External References
      - Jilayne assured consistency None/Assertion
  - Now working on
      - Making sure that external identifiers support security
  - Joint call upcoming with Legal Team on template language
      - Have pushed a couple of issues/ to Legal Team
  - Re-examining native from of spec under dev
      - Notion is to make it better accessible in Git Hub
      - Plan for full walk through at Collab Summit
  - Tools
      - Did maintenance release over the last week or so
      - Addressed reported bugs
      - Some other bug fixes
      - Gary will go back to the bug reporter to see if they might speak
        at a future General Meeting.

## Outreach Team Report - Phil (Jack supplied notes in absentia)

  - Haven’t had our first meeting of the year, that will be next week.
  - I also haven’t heard from the LF yet on the new website. Im going to
    ping them this week to see where they are.
      - Talked to Craig.
          - Working on some technical issues with generated license list
          - Next week we should be able to review and update
  - Were still hammering out an outreach plan on the wiki. Id like to to
    be done with it by the end of January and then we can share plans.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - License List 2.3 is now live
      - 3 new licenses
      - 1 new exception
      - Now starting to see markup on some of the headers; rest are in
        process
  - Call today
      - Continuing to look at markup
          - Form
          - Maintenance Process

## Cross Functional Topics - Phil

  - Save the date for Collab Summit in Lake Tahoe- March 29-31
      - Will be meeting
      - <http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/collaboration-summit/program/about>
      - Call for Papers is out- Best practices would be great
  - Lined up speakers for next 1-2 meetings
      - Still looking for more- easy, little prep required, low-key

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Gary O’Neill, SourceAuditor
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Yev Bronshteyn, Black Duck
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Pierre LaPointe, nexB
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
