  - Attendance: 9
  - Lead by Phil Odence
  - Minutes of April meeting approved

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary

  - Spec
      - Getting to final stages
      - Collab Summit issues have been addressed
      - People working on the spec have reviewed
      - Then will go out for broader review in a couple weeks
      - Transitioning documentation to Git
  - 2.1 Tools
      - Tool dev is finding some inconsistencies in tool
          - e.g. No license, no assertion

## Outreach Team Report - Jack

  - Website
      - Still trying to finish off
      - Important call today

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul

  - Special Call today
      - Working on XML files today
      - What review will look like
      - So work can be easily divided
  - License review tasks at hand-
      - 300 license need review (no more than 30 person-hours)
      - This is a rough look to make sure machine conversion hasn’t made
        obvious mistakes
      - Hoping to have done for next release of license list, end of Jun
      - Will make the call early in June.
  - Regular business of Legal Team
      - Some normal license approvals
      - Issue of Public Domain re-raised and discussed
          - Back burnered for future discussion
          - May involve a standard govt header

## Cross Functional Topics - Phil

  - Google SoC
      - Will not participate this year
  - Uber Conf
      - Need to find how our account was originally created
      - Kate building new one
  - Guest stars
      - Sam Ellis, Dave Marr, one more in pipeline
  - OSI Meeting
      - 
## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Gary O’Neill, SourceAuditor
  - Paul Madick, Dimension Data
  - Robin Gandhi, UNO

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
