  - Attendance: 15
  - Lead by Gary O'Neall
  - Minutes of Nov meeting approved

## Guest Speaker - Pedro Giffuni - FreeBSD

  - Overview and history of FreeBSD
  - Licensing - several variations of licenses, difficult to keep track
      - Mostly free of copyleft (exceptions tools like gcc)
      - Mix of BSD styles, MIT, ISC
  - SPDX helps solve some of the issues with non-uniform licenses
  - SPDX helps describe licenses when sharing code with other projects
      - Used WindRiver service to do initial identifications
      - Identified licenses needed manual review - not all of the
        license matches were precise
      - Breakdown of the licenses found was provided
  - Pedro has been adding the SPDX tags
  - Currently, only tagged C files and headers
  - Build files and documentation still need to be tagged
  - Just adding tag, not removing the licenses
      - Discussion on the advantages / disadvantages of keeping the
        license
      - Most important aspect is to add the SPDX ID for easy
        identification
  - Question on tagging some of the non-core files
      - Other projects are outside the tree and not currently tagged -
        they are maintained by other groups

## Tech Team Report - Kate and Gary

  - SPDX proposals for 2.2 and 3.0 versions of the spec are now in
    github
  - Some discussion on extending the license expression to include an
    ambiguous operator
  - Some discussion on various tooling effort including the tools
    presented by Thomas in Prague
  - Most tooling efforts have been focused on supporting the legal team
    move to the license XML format
  - Kate and Philippe provided an update on the use of license ID's in
    the Linux Kernel
      - All files now have detectable licenses\!
      - LWN has an article describing the effort:
        <https://lwn.net/Articles/739183/>
  - Philippe presented at the Paris Open Source summit

## Outreach Team Report - Jack

  - Moving to new wordpress website
  - Encouraged everyone to take a look at the site (note: you will need
    access to sign in)
  - Target to move in December, but it may end up being January

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Closed the GPL identifier issue requested by the FSF
      - The updated solution was accepted by FSF and Richard Stallman
  - We are now in "feature freeze" for the next release
      - We should hold off on opening up or discussing larger issues not
        related to the next release
      - Effort should be focused on resolving remaining issues in the
        github repository

## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Philippe Ombredanne, NexB
  - Bradlee Edmondson, Harvard
  - Pedro Giffuni, FreeBSD
  - Robert Musial, Progressive
  - Jeff Luszcz, Flexera
  - Dennis Clark, NexB
  - Gary O'Neall, Source Auditor
  - Alexios Zavras, Intel
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Scott Lammons, FreeBSD
  - Mathew Crawford, ARM

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
