  - Attendance: 9
  - Lead by Phil Odence
  - Minutes of May meeting approved

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary

  - Good progress on getting spec to GitHub
      - Should have a new version within the next month
      - Will be adapting processes to new source
  - Substantively working though list of items for next release
      - Still up in the air whether we will go to a 2.2 or directly to
        3.0
          - Need to resolve by Aug
          - 2.2 candidates- clean up appendices for license list work, a
            few additional fields
      - 3.0 will imply compatibility issues
      - Timeframe depends on above, but likely 2018 in any case
  - Summer of Code
      - A number of students have started
      - Participation in Tech Calls
      - One just starting to commit to GitHub
  - Tooling
      - Moving apace
  - News- Someone from IBM mentioned they are using SPDX short
    identifiers internally (at OSCON event).

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul

  - Lots of activity
  - XML work still underway; Gary supporting with tooling
  - Other large threads
      - Discussion about how to deal with licenses that have been
        translated
          - There is a default policy with which we’ve been consistent
          - Re-looking into this in light of new XML stuff and need for
            automated matching
          - JL started a Wiki page to pull together all the proposals
      - Kate/JL reached out to FSF
          - For rallying support
          - Issue: how we represent license and “or later” with the
            syntax sometimes goes unnoticed
              - Perhaps recasting as a separate v2 only license is a
                better way to handle
              - But there are implications we need to think through

## Outreach Team Report

  - Basically we are still working on a proposal for how to allow tools
    to get a badge or certification for working with SPDX documents
  - and an umbrella project  for Github for all of our projects out
    there.
  - Kate- also looking to create an archive of past projects which are
    no longer active
  - Bakeoff at LinuxCon Europe (October in Prague) is likely.
      - Working on test suite to be available for this.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Paul Madick, Dimension Data
  - Michael Herzog- nexB
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Bradlee Edmondson, Harvard
  - Gary O’Neall, SourceAuditor
  - Alexios Zavras, Intel
  - Mike Dolan, Linux Foundation

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
