  - Attendance:
  - Lead by Gary O'Neall
  - Minutes of May meeting approved

## Outreach Team Report - Jack

  - Mail list migration on June 13th. Changing from spdx-biz to
    spdx-outreach for mail list name. spdx-general will become parent,
    all of others will be child. If signed up for any child,
    automatically parent. This will give us a master mail list.
  - Jack will be sending an email out on June 11th, apprising all of the
    mail list change.
  - Room reserved for SPDX plugfest at OSS for Aug 27th.
  - No update on the web site change. Agreement not to wake them up, and
    leave alone for now.

## Legal Team Report - Paul

  - Regular meetings in progress, knocking down issues happening in
    github
  - Meetings with GSoC students to cover requirements

## Tech Team Report - Gary

  - GSoC students all started, 2 working with legal team.
  - still waiting on spdx 2.1.1 to have proper generated .pdf, no
    comments back yet on updated version published on web.
  - spdx-spec issues are all tagged in github
  - most of focus is 2.2 at this point.

## Cross team - Gary

  - looking at getting GSoC student - probably Yash to present at next
    general call.

## Attendees

  - Gary Oâ€™Neall, SourceAuditor
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Steve Winslow, LF
  - Paul Madick, Dimension Data
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
