  - Attendance: 10
  - Lead by Phil Odence
  - Minutes of Jan meeting approved

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary

  - Tools
      - Applying to participate in GSoC for 2019
          - Variety of proposals on Wiki:
            <https://wiki.spdx.org/view/GSOC/GSOC_ProjectIdeas>
          - We’ll hear back end of Feb 26 if we are selected.
      - tools-golang
          - Steve Winslow has contributed new Go libraries to SPDX to
            support generating SPDX documents see:
            <https://github.com/spdx/tools-golang>
          - He also created a tool to scan the kernel looking for
            SPDXIDs that Kate used for her talk at LCA to get latest
            status of the Kernel.
          - Go Steve\!
  - Specification
      - Discussing Mark Atwood's Idea for alternative name spaces for
        companies licenses that are not open source.
          - Spec can handle via "LicenseRef-"
          - What guidance do we provide?
      - Unblocking contributions to 2.2
          - Kate is working with Thomas to unblock contributions to 2.2
            (switch master over to 2.2 from 2.1.1)
          - We will be starting to take pull requests into 2.2 spec, for
            features approved, please assign issue to yourself if you
            want to write up the feature.
          - Focus for next few months
  - Started a tech call in Asia friendly time
      - Call will be on 2nd Tuesday of each month 10am Japan/12pm
        Australia (and 5pm PST Monday) on
        <https://www.uberconference.com/SPDXTeam>
      - First topic will be SPDX-lite discussion that's started in the
        OpenChain workgroup.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - License List
      - New process and links posted
          - Published policy says advocates need to stay engaged or
            requests may drop off the radar
          - GitHub process seems like a great way to handle requests
      - Need work outside the call

## Outreach Team Report - Jack

  - LinuxCon Aussie Presentation
      - Included Stat1/3 of files in Kernel have SPDX in them
      - Great momentum
  - Panel at FOSDEM on OSS Compliance tooling
      - Alexios attended
          - Lots or proposals on tools, so organizers turned into a
            panel w/ Bradley K moderating
          - Theme was need for interoperatblity
      - Video will be published
      - Alexios also mentioned that at recent copyleft conference, SPDX
        came up in every talk
  - Website
      - Looking into status of move to Wordpress with LF
      - Request a new license page has been directed to GitHub repo
  - Need an Outreach reboot

## Cross Functions

  - Alternate name space
      - Basics
          - Many companies have source available non-OSS licenses
          - Would be good for companies to be able to have standard
            local names
      - Proposal is to use DNS
          - Addresses issues with flat, first come first served
          - DNS will be around for a long time
          - Allows companies to self-assign
          - Internationalized by default
          - Immediately readable
          - Leading dot clearly differentiates from SPDX standard names
          - Challenges
              - Doesn’t cary text
              - Companies’ names may change through M\&A and may lose
                domains in the process
              - How to ensure that a company doesn’t change license text
      - Sentiment is in favor of
          - Retain “License Ref” prefix
          - Standardize on place to log license data
          - In a one-license SPDX doc
          - Mark will mock up with one of the Amazon licenses,
            collaborating with Kate

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck/Synopsys
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Mark Atwood, Amazon
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Gary O’Neall, SourceAuditor
  - Dennis Clark, NexB
  - Alexios Zavras, Intel
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Mark Baushke, Juniper
  - David Ryan

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
