  - Attendance: 15
  - Lead by Phil Odence
  - Minutes of Dec meeting approved

## Guest Presentation, JC Herz

  - Background
      - Years of working with companies and DOD in open source
  - The Issues/concerns
      - License issues- SPDX handles well
      - Concerns about security close on the heels
      - Compliance is an additional step- Jumping through the hoops to
        document
  - SEVA Software Evidence Archive
      - Elements
          - Serves S-BOM function
          - Augments with content that needs to travel with software
          - Therefore allowing compliance work to be automated
          - Freeing up valuable resources to do what they are supposed
            to do
          - Can apply to a single component or a full application, so
            SEVA doesn’t distinguish
      - Format Issue
          - Customers required XML, beyond SEVA JSON
          - To be useable by a highly secure facility, data has to be
            hardened for which XML is better suited
          - Can be constrained and format can be verified (and extended)
  - SPDX and SEVA Overlap
      - License Info
          - For the most part SPDX handles beautifully
              - Government also needs to distinguish government open
                source
              - A little more information about state of software (e.g.
                pre-release)
      - Security extra needs
          - Some concern about spurious vulnerabilities
          - Answer is to extend a BoM to include patch info, etc
          - End of life indicator
          - They take SPDX familiar thing and provide some extensibility
      - How to name “supplier”?
          - Working with Kate
          - OSS organization for example
          - A bank’s black list
      - Vulnerabilities
          - Key requirement for vulnerabilities info in SBOM, although
            just a link might make more sense
              - Reason is “audit” function. What you knew when. So needs
                a time stamp.
              - Bureaucratic are not going to change in favor of
                something that makes more sense for developers
              - Concerns that this will get worse over time
  - Other Side - Logistics
      - Moving and shipping of SW/chain of custody- Where did it come
        from exactly
          - Not something OSS community has had to worry about
          - Bad mirror issue, for example.
      - Signed? Timestamp? Delivery date and time for software.
          - Something like FedEx analogy
      - Package URL helps identify
  - Q\&A
      - What can SPDX group do?
          - JC thinks that they should open source SEVA
              - Could contribute to LinuxF perhaps
          - Understand and need to balance needs of OSS consumers and
            dev communities
              - Don’t want to burden them
              - Automate
          - Challenge- How to distinguish enterprise quality OSS vs. pet
            projects

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary

  - Tools
      - Starting to plan for GSoC submissions with Gary/Kate
      - Steve has been trained on releasing License list, so Gary now
        has backup
      - Steve has been working on some new tools for summarizing the
        SPDX\_license\_ids based on a new SPDX go library - currently
        its just supporting TV, but he hopes to add in the other formats
  - Specification
      - Gary & James have been working through SeVA XML and working
        through how it can be added.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - License List
      - V3.4 out before Christmas
          - Big success to not have to scramble through holidays
          - Release notes in the GitHub repo
      - Instructions for requesting now live in Repo as well
          - Leverage GSOC work has been automated.
      - New frontier- Getting open hardware licenses on list
          - Expanding definition of what goes on the list

## Outreach Team Report

  - None this month

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck/Synopsys
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Steve Winslow, LF
  - Alexios Zavras, Intel
  - Luis Villa, Tidelift
  - Jams Neushal, Neushul Solutions
  - Matthew Crawford, ARM
  - Kevin Nelson, Optim Tech UHG
  - Dennis Clark, NexB
  - Thomas Steenbergen, HERE
  - Bradlee Edmondson, Harvard
  - Gary O’Neall, SourceAuditor
  - Nicholas Toussaint, Orange
  - JC Herz, Ionchannel

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
