  - Attendance: 12 (attendance list at bottom)
  - Lead by Paul Madick
  - Minutes of May meeting approved

## Tech Team Report - Gary

  - Spec No issues remaining to latest spec, 8 GOSC students approved
    and working. Looking forward to new tools this summer. Lots of new
    projects adopting SPDX and Linux kernel clean up of licensing still
    working (about 2/3 through). Making great progress.
  - Tools

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul

  - License List
  - GSOC student on last call. Great information. Legal Meeting minutes
    has the description, take a look if you are interested or would like
    to provide input.
  - Reworking the license inclusion guidelines and moving into github
    repository in the documentation folder. Please weigh in if you are
    interested in more licenses. Still looking for more volunteers to
    move license submissions into license approvals.
  - A big welcome to new co-lead of legal team Steve Winslow and a big
    thank you to Karen for her years of stewardship as she steps away
    from the co-lead position.

## Outreach Team Report - Jack Manbeck

  - Not a lot going on now, but working on a survey. Intention is to
    send the survey to companies to see where they are at in
    using/implementing SPDX. Maybe include some community in survey, but
    not sure yet.

## General Items

  - Conversation: are we meeting for summer LF event in SD. Not
    currently, but Kate will look into getting meeting room for ½ day,
    etc. Jack, Paul, Kate, Steve and others are potentially available to
    attend at least one day in SD.

## Attendees

  - Alexios Zavras, Intel
  - JC Herz, Ion Channel
  - Dave McLoughlin
  - Paul Madick, Dimension Data
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Steve Winslow, LF
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Alexios Zavras, Intel
  - Philippe Ombrédanne- nexB
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Mike Herzog
  - Mark Atwood

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
