  - Attendance: 8
  - Lead by Phil Odence
  - Minutes of Dec meeting

## Tech Team Report - Kate

  - Spec

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Working on closing open pull requests in 2.2
          - Should be frozen this month
          - At which point we will commence a review period
          - Goal is to get 2.2 out to catch up with the tools

  - Tools
    
      - GSOC starting up again
          - Gary, Kate and Phillippe are driving
          - Could you some projects; add to wiki page
      - That will free up for focus on next rev
          - Main feature is generalized profiles for different SBoM
            types
      - Europe meet up
          - Suggestions came back to legal team

## Legal Team Report - Steve

  - Finalizing additions for 3.8 release
      - Should be out this weekend
  - Expanding license inclusion guidelines
      - In practical directions
      - Team is aligned conceptually
      - Need to get words down on paper
      - Aiming to have in place to use as filter for 3.9 list
  - Reviewing license expression syntax as well

## Outreach Team Report

  - Closed out the survey

## Cross Functional -

  - None

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck/Synopsys
  - Steve Winslow, LF
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, Canonical
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Jim Hutchison, Qualcomm
  - Kevin Nelson, UHG
  - Nisha Kumar, VMware

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
