  - Attendance: 14
  - Lead by Phil Odence
  - Minutes of Aug meeting

## Presentation - GSoC Smith Tanjong Agbor

  - Validating License Cross References

## Tech Team Report - Kate / Gary

  - Spec
      - 2.1 is in good shape
          - Ready to submit to ISO
          - Many big thanks to Steve, Jack, Rex and others for great
            work
          - Should be an ISO Spec in 4-5 months
      - Also looking at 3.0 for ISO
  - Tools
      - Community Bridge funding project
          - We are through phase 1 (funding for this year)
          - On track for phase 2 next year
      - Should have new infrastructure up in the next month or two
          - Including real URL
          - and SSL for security
  - GSoC
      - All projects are progressing quite well
          - All students have passed 2nd evaluation
      - Aveek started this for SPDX (in addition to LF) and it’s been
        great for us
          - We get more slots as a consequence

## Legal Team Report - Paul/Steve

  - License List
      - Monday we relapsed 3.10 license list
          - 20 new ones
      - Joint meeting upcoming with the tech team to look at 3.0

## Outreach Team Report

  - No Update

## Cross Functional

  - 
## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck/Synopsys
  - David Wheeler, Linux Foundation
  - Mark Baushke, Juniper
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Gary O’Neall, SourceAuditor
  - Paul Madick
  - Michael Herzog- nexB
  - Steve Winslow, LF
  - Michael Herzog- nexB
  - Matije Suklje, Liferay
  - Aveek, NextMark Printers
  - Alexios Zavras, Intel
  - Michael Richardson
  - Mike Dolan, Linux Foundation

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
