  - Attendance: 27
  - Lead by Phil Odence

## Special Topics- Phil / Vicky

  - Governance Update
      - New governance is in place
      - Will be announcing mechanism for signing up Member Companies
      - With that will announce the mechanism for nominating Steering
        Committee members

<!-- end list -->

  - Wipro
      - Vicky discussed Wipro’s view of benefits and reasons for joining

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary/Others

  - Tools 
      - no update
  - Specification
      - Spec version compatible with ISO, now available
  - Version 3
      - Working on how to establish the repos
  - Question about SPDX Lite
      - That would be the minimum mandatory fields

## Legal team update - Jilayne

  - New license request volume slowed down this month
  - Doing some general catchup with members of the legal team
  - Due for a new release at the end of the month
  - Update on collaboration with OSI and FSF

  \* Gary is working on 3 year old issues with the LicenseListPublisher
to automate the inclusion of data from FSF and OSI   \* Data is in the
isFsfFree column and the OSI approved columns for the SPDX listed
licenses   \* Recently, getting good response from FSF and OSI -
especially from OSI   \* OSI has a machine readable format that is being
actively worked on   \* In addition to tool automation, there may be an
opportunity for the legal team to have a communication process on
license updates   \* Jilayne provided history on previous attempts to
work with FSF on integrating their data which at times has been less
responsive  

## Outreach team - Sebastian

  - Recent Docfest was a success, brought in several tool vendors to
    compare results
  - Updated Wikipedia page progressing slowing
      - Lead section updated - this is what you seen when you do a
        Google search
  - Sebastian resolved an accessibility issue with the SPDX spec web
    pages - increasing the contrast making it much more readable
  - Website is being updated
      - A section will be added to showcase company usage of SPDX
  - Updating meeting time to be more time available
      - Times are shown as UTC Note: will change next month
      - new time will be the off weeks at the same time as legal
  - going to meetings every other week from once a week.  Vicki pointed
    out that there will be more work being done on the mailing list, so
    feel free to volunteer for outreach activities even if you can't
    make the meetings.
  - Joshua reported the SPDX official podcasts started
      - Once a month
      - Outreach team will meeting every other month
      - Will interview many community members
      - Will follow-up with Vicki and others in the general meeting
  - Kate - presented keynote at open source summit
      - well received, good interested
  - Sebastian and Gary reporting increasing interest in SBOM tooling -
    we're seeing some good momentum

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck/Synopsys
  - Alexios Zavras, Intel
  - Andrew Jorgenson, AWS
  - Kate Stewart, LF
  - Gary O’Neall, SourceAuditor
  - Bill Jaeger
  - Bob Martin, Mitre
  - Eric Billingsley, Calculi
  - Chrissini de Castro
  - Michael Mehlberg, Dark Sky Technology
  - Maximilian Huber, TNG
  - Sebastian Crane
  - William Cox, Synopsys
  - Vicky Brasseur, Wipro
  - Matthew Crawford, ARM
  - Marc Gisi, Windriver
  - Pierre Tardy,
  - Joshua Marpet, RM-ISAO
  - Brad Goldring, GTC Law Group
  - Paul Madick, Jenzabar
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, Red Hat
  - Christopher Lusk
  - Clement Poulain
  - Joshua Dubin, Verizon
  - Takashi Ninjouji
  - Jeff Schutt, Cisco
  - Robert Boyd, Calculi

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
