  - Attendance: 29
  - Lead by Gary O’Neall
  - Minutes of July meeting Approved

## New License Matching Library

  - Presented by Mikihito Matsuura
  - Slides:
    <https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10n5CSE_LP0HDznhb6_P6zmyA4QpKJX3b_VhOvnF3nuk/edit?usp=sharing>
  - PyPI: <https://pypi.org/project/yalm/>
  - GitHub repo: <https://github.com/m1kit/yalm-python/>
  - GitHub resources repo:
    <https://github.com/m1kit/yalm-resources/tree/dist>
  - Uses 2 step process, word matching, then regex
  - Looking to extend beyond python, to ruby, etc.
  - Proposal JSON format for template – Should we standardize JSON?
  - Vulnerable regexes in templates – regex matches may match unintended
    text
  - What about a ML engine? Its focus is actual match rather than
    detection.
      - Goal is license matching, not license detection
  - Which matching guidelines are covered and which still needs to be
    implemented
      - Some are not covered
      - Suggest documenting which matching guidelines are not
        implemented
      - Perhaps tune the matching guidelines and license templates
  - Use of the XML format
      - XML is used as input
  - Additional questions and follow-up on a joint technical-legal team
  - Suggestion PyPI should have spdx- in the name -

## Validate and Generate multiple representations of specifications

  - Presented by Nirmal Praveen Suthar
  - Slides:
    <https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17xrxcJ-74DfFmdZl99ogZTWa-MOgKuKW1PH6Qq5C4sg/edit?usp=sharing>
  - Relevant links:
      - Parser: <https://github.com/spdx/spec-parser>
      - spec-v3-template example:
        <https://github.com/spdx/spec-v3-template>\* Populates internal
        graph structure, namespace model. LALR is sufficient, but
        opportunity for improvement.
  - Generate a JSON Representation of the Specification from Structured
    Markdown
  - Transforms spec into “pretty markdown” and RDF OWL – the latter can
    be used to generate other schemas used by tools
  - Validation and report of errors
  - Reduce redundancy (e.g. handling defaults)
  - Adds reference sections

## Outreach Team Report - Sebastian/Jack

  - Weekly meetings – Moved to Wednesday
  - Update WikiPedia entry – currently terribly out of day
  - Will start with Podcasts
  - Follow-up with RSS feeds
  - Updates for the Wordpress website – will be a topic for the next
    meeting
  - IRC is up and running and doing well
  - Please take the SBOM readiness survey:
    <https://www.linuxfoundation.org/press-release/linux-foundation-research-announces-software-bill-of-materials-sbom-readiness-survey/>
  - Upcoming “town hall” will discuss tooling – see
    <https://events.linuxfoundation.org/supply-chain-town-hall/program/schedule/>
  - DOCFest September 16 – see
    <https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-tech/message/4142>

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul/Steve

  - Next team call today – issues pending for release
  - Next release is expected Saturday or Sunday
  - Nothing technical expected in this release

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary/Others

  - Specification – continuing to work through element and document
    interaction and modeling as well as identifier naming
      - Making progress on 3.0

## Other Topics

None

## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart
  - Maximilian Huber -
  - Sebastian Crane
  - Tony Aiuto
  - David Edelsohn
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Christopher Lusk -
  - Philippe-Emmanuel Douziech
  - Mikihito Matsuura (GSoC student)
  - Marc-Etienne Vargenal
  - Brad Goldring
  - Alexios Zavras
  - Rich Steenwyk
  - Nirmal Suthar (GSoC student)
  - Joshua Marpet
  - Andrew Jorgensen (AWS)
  - Christian Long
  - Tiberius Hefflin
  - Paul Madick
  - Anshul
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Christina
  - Jeff Schutt (Cisco)
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Steve Winslow
  - Christian Long
  - Emmerich
  - 2 people on phone where we did not catch the names

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
