  - Attendance: 22
  - Lead by Phil Odence
  - Minutes of June meeting Approved

## SPDX Governance - Phil

Status of governance changes

  - Still working through a using the prepackaged JDF docs with LF
    lawyers
      - Lots there due to general nature
      - It will have to go through the specified process for discussion
        and voting
  - Why?
      - More scrutiny
      - Standards requirement- Companies supporting, logos
          - OMG CISQ 3T joining SPDX
          - ISO direction – Need more
          - Executive Order
          - Working with other standards, i.e. SWID and CycloneDX

 \* Specific concerns that came up

  -   - Community Spec License vs. CCBY
          - Patent license to address concerns that have arisen from
            companies we want to support
      - Also, tangentially related SBOM gen tool showed up in repo
          - Need criteria for including

  - A question came up about discussion of governance on the Gen Mailing
    list
    
      - We try to limit traffic on the list so one can use to monitor
        activity without being overwhelmed
      - There will be a chance for discussion of a governance proposal
        once process goes in motion
      - Contact Phil with inputs
      - We’ll look into a separate list

## Outreach Team Report - Sebastian/Jack

 

  - Rebooted
  - SPDX website rework - license for content CC-BY-4.0
      - Looking to rebuild website as static site.
      - Code and license - more flex over precise styling and
        functionality.
      - Prototype of site in next few weeks.
  - Technical slides - present about SPDX in own organizations.
      - Reviewed collateral,  audience focus for collateral that will
        meet audience needs.
      - More explanation of “why”.   Point to specification when get to
        details. 
  - IRC channel 
      - Sebastian set up \#spdx on libera.chat
      - previous channels on OFTC, Freenode; hadn’t taken off
      - libera.chat has 11 people in it currently
      - “cloaking” - hides IP address in some cases, replaces with badge
        for organization you’re associated with; Sebastian can provide
        “SPDX cloak”
  - Matrix bridge - feature of libera.chat, enables joining via Matrix
  - Meeting date and time: 1500 UTC on Wednesdays will be new meeting
    time, on 14th of July

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul/Steve

 

  - Several new folks participating
  - Ariel and Candice from ClearlyDefined have been digging into the
    Python stack of licenses
  - License List 3.14 release - targeting end of July

 

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary/Others

 

  - Tools 
      - GSoC - JSON support in Golang; will seek to get GSoC student to
        present at a future General Meeting
      - New participants interacting with tools, and seeing pull
        requests.
      - NTIA Plugfest 
          - new tools emerging from communities 
          - SPDX was most common format in use
          - Can’t get down to SPDX field to field 
      - SPDX Plugfest?
          - Desire to have Japan SPDX Plugfest
          - One for north america   
      - Anchore has a tool supporting SPDX output if you need more 3.0
        examples we can on it. (github.com/anchore/syft). We have 2.2
        now but can fairly quickly iterate for some 3.0 support.
  - Specification
      - ISO/IEC PRF 5962 - Information Technology — SPDX® Specification
        V2.2.1- moved to PRF status Publication date : 2021-08
      - OCI registry overview and how SPDX could interact with
        containers. 
      - Specification 3.0 Work 
          - Looking for more 3.0 examples in serialization
          - Lacking critical mass for some decisions - vacations
              - Moving through punch list on core model.
          - Vulnerability - waiting for core.   Snyk put up a nice
            post.   
              - Feedback in progress.   
              - Serialization needs to become clearer.
              - More examples are needed. 
              - Follow up VEX and CSAF
          - Licensing profile - pretty similar to 2.2 already.
              - Once formatting for how template can be expressed.

## Other Topics

  - Open Question - why spdx.dev vs. spdx.org;   license list
    dynamically generated spdx.org - Drupal → Wordpress.   How to keep
    License list still populate to website.
  - Keep license list URL stable. 
  - Wikipedia page on SPDX is pretty stale.    
      - Needs to be updated.    Outreach will take it. 

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck/Synopsys
  - Philippe Emmanuel Douziech, CAST
  - Bob Martin, Mitre
  - Joshua Marpet, RM-ISAO
  - David Edelsohn, IBM
  - Sebastian Crane
  - Marc Etienne Vargenau, Nokia
  - Zach Hill, Anchore
  - Steve Winslow, LF
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - William Cox, Synopsys
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Alexios Zavras, Intel
  - Warner Losh, FreeBSD
  - Alfredo Espinosa
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, Red Hat
  - Chris Lusk
  - Andrew Jorganson, AWS
  - Thomas Steenbergen, HERE
  - Ronda,
  - Brian Fox, Sonotype
  - Michael Herzog- nexB

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
