  - Attendance: 22
  - Lead by Phil Odence
  - Minutes of Feb meeting Approved

<!-- end list -->

  - Plan was to switch to Zoom
  - Considering using Jitsi

 

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary/Others

 

  - Spec – Kate
      - Core Model - Gary
          - Lots of time on how to manage multiple profiles
          - How to make it easier for tools
          - Priority is on consumer/producers of docs
              - Specifically, how to handle multiple profiles
      - Licensing
          - Pull request for early first cut
          - Incomplete (intentionally) for feedback
          - Take a look: <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/503>
          - Comments welcome
      - Integrity – Kay
          - Doing Protyping
          - Binary signing
          - PGP and X509 and small IOT devices targeted
          - Demoed two weeks ago
      - Defects / Security – Thomas not here today
          - no update
      - Linking – Nisha not here today
          - no update
      - Usage – Yoshiyuki Ito
          - There was a meeting
          - Working on ideas
      - Pedigree / Build / Creation – Kate
          - Looking for participants

<!-- end list -->

  - Namespace
      - Kate raised question of anyone using namespace registration
      - Two organizations are employing
          - <https://tools.spdx.org/app/license_namespace_requests/>
          - Example: LicenseRef-.com.amazon.-AmznSL-1.0
      - Mark will present next month

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul/Steve

 

  - 3.12 License List now live
  - Adding some informal roles on the team, e.g. New License Steward
  - Discussions of automation opportunities
  - Kicking off 3.13 release, likely small end of April
  - <https://spdx.dev/faq/#licenses>

## Outreach Team Report

  - No Report

## A Few More Items

  - Sebastian volunteered to review the FAQ
  - Google Summer of Code GSC
      - Kate mentioned that SPDX has been accepted to the Google Summer
        of Code program and to please let any students know who might be
        interested.
      - Aveek mentioned that student submissions end on 4/15 and that
        some students need some help with the submission
      - Gary indicated that the preferred method for communication
        concerning GSC is on gitter.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck/Synopsys
  - Philippe Emmanuel Douziech, CAST
  - William Cox, Synopsys
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Steve Winslow, LF
  - Sebastian Crane
  - Gary O’Neall, SourceAuditor
  - David Edelsohn, IBM
  - Kay Williams, Microsoft
  - Aveek Basu, NextMark Printers
  - Paul Madick, Jenzabar
  - Rose Judge, VMware
  - Bob Martin, Mitre
  - Michael Herzog- nexB
  - Karsten Klein
  - Wayne Beaton, Eclipse
  - Emmanuel Tournier, Black Duck/Synopsys
  - Jeff Schutt
  - Marc Etienne Vargenau, Nokia
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, Red Hat
  - Mark Atwood, Amazon
  - Jim Hutchison, Qualcomm

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
