  - Attendance: 18
  - Lead by Phil Odence
  - Minutes of Apri meeting Approved

<!-- end list -->

  - Plan was to switch to Zoom
  - Considering using Jitsu

## SPDX License Name Space at Amazon - Mark

  - <https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uCAJW79hzqLAPhXfAn4maCRk9TZUhLJDAPEOBlgUFTw/edit?usp=sharing>

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary/Others

 

  - Spec – Kate
      - Specification conversations continuing to move forward
      - Rough template for categories of topics (what were previously
        being called “profiles”)
      - Core Model - William
          - No Update
      - Licensing - Steve
          - filed PR with initial draft for discussion of template
            format, etc.; will update to newer template; previously
            discussed much of its substance last year
      - Integrity – Kay
          - working with in-toto community, framework for end-to-end
            supply chain security; collaborating with them to see if the
            specs can be aligned
      - Defects / Security – Thomas not here today
          - pushed first draft of fields for (1) vulnerabilities, and
            (2) defects =\> impact on packages, false positives, etc.
              - <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/510>
          - Meetings next week to look at other security specs, their
            use cases, whether they can / how they should be
            incorporated
      - Linking – Nisha not here today
          - Kate discussing with Nisha / Rose
      - Usage – Yoshiyuki Ito
          - No update
      - Pedigree / Build / Creation – Kate
          - No Update
  - GSoC- Alexios
      - Got 5 slots; can run up to 5 projects
      - Likely to accept 5 proposals:
          - 2 for improving Golang tooling libraries (one RDF writing,
            one JSON reading/writing)
          - 1 for transitioning / updating online SPDX tools
          - 1 for spec processing tools
          - 1 for improved license matcher, taking matching guidelines
            into account (unplanned submission)

 

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul/Steve

 

  - Working for 3.13, planning to push out over the weekend
  - Have been trying to clean up old issues
  - Some updates on documentation in the repo
  - New participants recently – some discussions on recent calls have
    included reviewing past history; may want to put together more
    historical documentation of past context, etc.
  - Some interest from Debian – interest in getting a Debian-free
    tickbox into the license list
  - License submissions – starting to take a harder line on
    participation from people submitting license requests without
    sticking with them. For this release, started asking people to
    create the PR’s themselves – a few of the submitters at least
    responded and indicated they would do so
  - Still relying on the calls too much; having people commenting in
    issues out-of-band would be very helpful

 

## Outreach Team Report - Kate

 

  - Continuing to see interest in SPDX across different communities
  - Zephyr – auto-generation
  - Possible interest in re-starting Outreach team meetings – Sebastian
    interest, Aveek also
  - Kate will reach out to Jack and either ask him to restart or else
    Kate will restart

## Other Topics

 

  - Sebastian – interest in Arch Linux in using SPDX
      - Some work being done on the Arch packaging system, interest in
        using SPDX licenses
  - Jitsi
      - Jilayne - Jitsi – this has gone well, plan to update to this for
        future General calls
      - Legal and Tech teams can update if/when they choose
      - Europe, UK, etc. seems to be working
      - Bob – recommend putting passwords on it
      - Steve – discuss whether to put one on. Possible but appears to
        prevent dial-ins afterwards.
          - Steve will look into options

 

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck/Synopsys
  - Mark Atwood, Amazon
  - Matthew Crawford, ARM
  - Bob Martin, Mitre
  - Philippe Emmanuel Douziech, CAST
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, Red Hat
  - Maximilian Huber, TNG
  - Alexios Zavras, Intel
  - Kay Williams, Microsoft
  - David Edelsohn, IBM
  - Thomas Steenbergen, HERE
  - Jeff Schutt, Cisco
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Michael Herzog- nexB
  - Sebastian Crane
  - Steve Winslow, LF
  - Marc Etienne Vargenau, Nokia
  - Jonas Smedegaard, self

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
