# SPDX General Meeting Minutes - June 2, 2022       

        
## Administrative
* Attendance: 28       
* Lead by Phil Odence
* Minutes from last meeting approved.
        
## Steering Committee Update - Phil
* Governance updates - minor clarifications
* Starting work on a project management framework
  * Team Leads trying out a kickoff form before formalizing anything
* Alexios selected as new co-lead for Outreach Team, joining Steering Committee in that capacity

## OpenSSF and White House Meeting - Kate
* Focus on SBOMs - looking to engage with SPDX community, particularly on Defects side + laser focus on security
* Early January 2022 - discussing security and SBOMs; many companies putting resources towards solving problems are OpenSSF members; discussion was under Chatham House Rule, info present but not disclosing speaker / organization
* New meeting - included representatives from many organizations, including outside OpenSSF / LF
* Kate and William Bartholomew present and active in SBOM workstream
  * Mobilization plan: https://openssf.org/oss-security-mobilization-plan/ - Stream 9, "SBOMs Everywhere"
  * Stream 10 also relevant to SPDX
  * Additionally a working group for package managers, with recurring meetings
* June 20 or later - will be meeting in Austin among SPDX, CycloneDX and others re: identifying key use cases; reach out to Kate if wanting to participate in discussion
* Looking to find companies willing to invest in improving tooling, especially with going to 2.3 and 3.0; tools requested by community; improving documentation; doing outreach
* CISA Federal Register notice: https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/06/01/2022-11733/public-listening-sessions-on-advancing-sbom-technology-processes-and-practices
* RedHat readout from meeting: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/mark-bohannon-54b66a_red-hats-open-approach-to-vulnerability-activity-6931970156457840640-BrD8/?utm_source=linkedin_share&utm_medium=member_desktop_web 

        
## Tech Team Report - Gary/Kate/Thomas

### Spec
* SPDX 2.2.2 has been released
  * docs bugs have been resolved, and can be accessed at: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/
* SPDX 2.3 is close to feature complete,  we'll be declaring a release candidate in the next week, and generating ontologies for the tools to start trying it out.   
  * Likely aiming to release in next couple of weeks
  * Documented in spdx-spec GitHub repo re: remaining tasks and activities
  * Only a couple items left impacting syntax of documents; hoping they'll be resolved this week, though can't commit b/c seeking consensus across multiple teams and time zones
  * Aiming to have a draft schema out w/in a week after consensus, to be available for review
  * Tooling folks then to update tools in parallel
  * A couple of big issues _separate from_ those impacting the syntax: e.g. license namespaces, licenses and snippets; intending to be compatible with existing syntax, but want to document in spec if adopting
* SPDX 3.0 moving in parallel,  revised model posted.
  * William leading up core profile team effort
  * Small list of outstanding items, will soon transition to documentation phase, moving from visual to written model
  * Defects profile, canonicalisation, usage profile
  * WG:  AI BOM team meeting regularly, looking at defining how to define training data, data sets, etc., starting to work up minimal set of fields
    * focused on how to represent models and training data for models
*  WG: SPDX Implementers Group - meeting to discuss best practices around generating SPDX documents, meeting every other Wednesday
* WG: Build data - Brandon Lum heading up recurring meeting, Monday nights European time
* WG: Canonicalization - Meets on Friday,  discussing the serializations for the 3.0 model. 
* Namespace discussions,  additional meeting with Friday.
* Desire to have working group meetings listed and calendar invites visible
  * Sebastian - looking to update wiki in short term, https://wiki.spdx.org/
  * Gary - currently discussed primarily on tech team list
  * Jilayne - would it make sense to add meeting times to https://github.com/spdx/meetings -- main README

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul/Steve
* License List 3.17 released in May
* Focus currently on discussion of cross-team topics for spec - license namespaces, etc.
* Looking to get a bit more formalization on cross-team topics:
  * avoid multiple conversations on separate calls, look to have joint calls where appropriate
  * proposals for something significant and new: aim to be more disciplined in articulating what's being solved for, e.g. "problem statement" / "what is this trying to achieve"; articulate how this fits into the mission of the project
  * try to define the goals / problem statement before jumping to implementation
* Namespace discussion tomorrow - https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-tech/message/4539; please read first before coming to meeting
        
## Outreach Team Report -  Sebastian / Jack / Alexios
* GSOC
  * 2 projects for this summer, now in the community bonding period
  * communicate with participants
  * Coding period starts next week
* Material progress on SPDX website rebuild, sneak peek on upcoming outreach team call
* Joshua Marpet working on additional outreach things
* Upcoming talks:
  * Kate - upcoming RSA talk with Allen Friedman re: SBOMs and tooling, come by and say hi in person if you'll be there!
  * Steve - Zephyr Developer Summit next week, SBOMs at build time
  * Steve - OSPOCon / OSS NA later in June, SPDX License List

        
## Attendees
* David Edelsohn, IBM
* Kate Stewart, LF
* Jeff Buddington
* Gary O'Neall
* Alex Rybak, Revenera
* Dick Brooks, REA
* Alexios Zavras
* Rich Steenwyk, GE Healthcare
* Jeff Schutt
* Sebastian Crane
* Molly Menoni
* Phil Odence, Synopsys
* Steve Winslow, Boston Tech Law
* Jack Manbeck
* Yoshiyuki Ito
* Brad Goldring, GTC Law Group
* Andrew Jorgensen
* Michael Herzog
* Joshua Watt
* Rose Judge
* Sunil Jain
* Karsten Klein
* Mark Atwood, Amazon.com
* Tony Aiuto, Google
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau, Nokia
* VM Brasseur, Wipro
* Adrian Diglio, Microsoft
* Hector Fernandez, VMware

   
        ---------------------
