# SPDX General Meeting Minutes - January 5, 2023

## Administrative
* Lead by Phil Odence
* Minutes from last meeting approved

### Attendence: 18


## Steering Commitee Update - Phil
* Little work going on leading up to holiday.


## Tech Team Report - Gary, William, Kate

* https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/goneall-patch-7/tech/2022-12-20.md

* SPDX 3.0
* Working on how to pull inputs from profiles into spec
  * Core Profile - William/Gary/Kate
  * Licensing Profile - Steve/Alexios
    * Much of the work had already been discussed in the legal meetings previously, matter of getting the licensing profile into the 3.0 format
    * had been waiting on Core Profile
  * Security Profile - Thomas/Jeff
    *  Scheduling is a chanllege for international team
  * Build Profile - Brandon/Nisha
    * Build model needs to be generalize
  * Usage Profile - Ito/Ninjouji/Asaba/Kobota
     * Working of issue regarding whether some fileds are part of file or package
  * AI & Dataset Profile - Gopi/Karen/Kate
    * Will split to separate Dataset Profile
  * Functional Safety - Nicole/Kate
     * Targeted for 3.1
    * Group safety elements together
    * Tracing safety issues and impacts
  * Canonicalization
    * Waiting for Core Profile
  * Serialization
    * How to represent
  * Hardware Profile
    * Interest and potential for 3.1
     * Interest from Chips Alliance Group to bring domain expertise

* Implementers
  * Tools
  * Light attendance
  * Every other week on Wednesdays
  * Upcoming discussion on what constitutes a quality SBOM

* Tooling
  * More maintainter coming in on NTIA conformance checker
  * New release of online tools pending; aiming for this week
  * Java tools
    * lots of activity
    * Maven plug in
    * Cyclone DX conversion
  * Python libraries
    * Much refactoring activity
    * Up on PyPy

## Legal Team Update - Jilayne/Steve/Paul
* Next license release, 3.20, aiming for end of month
  * Lots of new Fedora licenses added
    * in wake of Fedora adopting SPDX identifiers in July and documentation release last quarter
  * Could always use more input and help
* Updating license adding process doc
  * recorded videos of different ways to create files - will be uploaded soon
* Upcoming topics, potentially for joint Tech Team discussion
  * Change proposal for extending the concept of license ref for exceptions on Jan 12th during legal team meeting time. See https://github.com/spdx/change-proposal/blob/main/proposals/ExceptionRef.md and https://github.com/spdx/change-proposal/issues/4
  * Reminder email will go out to Legal and Tech Teams as to time and topic
* Side note: Jilayne working on history of license list to capture legacy knowledge
  * Should be posted shortly
  * also working on history of OSI/SPDX collaboration as people ask about that every so often
  * other ideas on recording of legacy knowledge welcome!

## Outreach Team Update - Sebastian/Alexios/Jack
* Website update in process
  * Goal is to maintain content in GitHub
  * Working with LF on how to
* SPDX fo Security white paper to be published in the LF blog


## Attendees
* Phil Odence (Black Duck Audits, Synopsys)
* Bob Martin
* Jari Koivisto
* Armin TÃ¤nzer
* Paul Madick
* Mary Hardy (Microsoft)
* Gary O'Neall
* Peter Caven
* Steve Winslow
* Mike McDonel
* Adolfo Garcia Veytia (Chainguard)
* Dick Brooks (REA)
* Steven Carbno (Smart Talk Beacon)
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* David Edelsohn
* Kate Stewart
* Alfred Strauch (Smart Talk Security Inc.)
* Brad Goldring (GTC Law Group)
