# SPDX General Meeting Minutes - October 5, 2023

## Administrative
* Lead by Rose Judge
* Minutes from last meeting to approve: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/474

## Presentation: Empowering Open Source Compliance: My GSoC Journey with SPDX
* Presenter: Vedant Jolly
* Proposed Deliverables:
  * Auto create PR for new licenses
  * Add linters to the project
  * Differentiate exceptions from license submissions
  * General UI Improvements

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary/WIlliam 
* Core & Software Profiles - Gary/Kate/William
  * Main focus is getting 3.0 published
  * Reached agreement on the namespace and serialization issues
  * Working through remaining issues on RC2
  * Work to be done includes documentation generation, review of relationships, and completing the serialization spec
* Security Profile - Thomas/Jeff/Rose
  * Started PR to add CVSSv4 security assessment to the 3.0 model
  * Continued working on functional example
  * Updated security model to use the same scheme as the 3.0 model (.png)
* Licensing Profile - Steve
  * DataLicense change question - pending further decisions from tech team regarding document modeling, etc.
    - Gary updated - there is now going to be a concept comparable to SPDX Documents in 3.0, so potentially could have DataLicense defined on this rather than on every element
* Build Profile - Brandon/Nisha
  * No update
* Lite Profile - Ito/Ninjouji/Asaba/Kobota
  * PR is open for the proposed profile (still needs to be updated with discussions from OSS EU): https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/350
* AI Profile -  Karen/Gopi
  * Continuing to develop applicable use cases (including Lamba-2)
 * SPDX 3.0 comparison with ISO/IEEE/EU AI Act/ NIST AI standards
  * Starting to list all AI develoment type tools (potential to be automated to generate sbom fields)
* Dataset Profile - Karen/Gopi
  * SBOM created for many open data sets
* Functional Safety - Nicole/Kate
  * Two open source tools interested in adopting
  * Started prototyping with Zephyr use case, so that there would be a reference for the tooling
* Canonicalization / Serialization - Max/Gary
  * Reached agreement on structure of the classes representing the serialization
  * Remaining work on naming - cleaning up a few issues
* Software as a Service â€“ Gary
  * Completed collecting use cases
  * Started the process of ranking / prioritizing the use cases to decide which ones we will tackle in SPDX 3.1
* Hardware - Kate
  *  mailing list set up - https://lists.spdx.org/g/spdx-hardware - feel free to subscribe if interested
  * next meeting on October 6 - plan is to review CISA HBOM framework published in Sept for inclusion
* Implementers - Rose
  * Reminder for quickstart guides if you have a tool that interoperates with SPDX (by the end of the month)
    * https://github.com/spdx/outreach/tree/main/quickstart
  * Meeting have been sporadic due to conference travel
  * Some work starting on the Javascript tooling libraries
  * PR to natively produce SPDX from the Node package manager
  * Max and Gary presenting at Packaging Con in Berlin at the end of October; hoping to sign up more package managers to produce SPDX documents there

## Legal Team Update - Jilayne/Steve
* 3.22 License List release out today
* 48 licenses added; 17 licenses got additional markup
* 81 PRs - Miroslav Suchy had most PRs at 32, which is more than Jilayne and Steve combined - this is a first!
* Massive increase in other people (particularly Fedora developers) participating in creating PRs to add approved licenses in the way our process has aspired to work
* cross-collaboration between Github (SPDX License List) and Gitlab (Fedora license data repo)
* https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/legal/license-review-process/ 

## Outreach Team Update - Alexios/Bob
* SPDX Mini Summit happened at OSS EU - recordings available: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLbzoR-pLrL6qc2MGUC1p1EYUTk7EOuB9i
* SPDX website re-launched: https://spdx.dev/

## General Announcements
* Deploying SPDX Identifiers in the GNU Toolchain presentation by David Edelsohn at GNU Tools Cauldron 2023 Cambridge, UK
  * Generally positive response from community.
  * There are gaps in identifiers, but GNU Toolchain community won't know until we try to deploy and discover which files have gaps.
  * Questions from FSF about following Linux Kernel syntax / format.
* Microsoft open-sourced their library for digitally signing SBOMs and other evidence files this week: https://github.com/microsoft/CoseSignTool

## Attendees (28)
* Aditi Sharma
* Alex Stewart
* Alexios Zavras
* Alfred Strauch
* Bob Martin
* Brad Goldring (GTC Law Group)
* David Edelsohn
* David Shields
* Gary Armstrong (FossID)
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schutt
* Jessie Vaught
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Jim Vitrano
* Joe Bussell
* Karen Bennet
* Kate Stewart
* Madhuri Padmanabhan
* Marcel Kurzmann
* Mark Atwood
* Mark Farrell
* Mary Hardy
* Matthew Crawford (Arm)
* Maximillian Huber
* Paul Madick
* Phil Odence (Synopsys/Black Duck)
* Rose Judge
* Shalini Batra
* Steve Winslow
* Vedant Jolly
