# SPDX Tech Team Meeting — 2025-11-11

## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Bob Martin
* Dick Brooks
* Gale McCommons
* Gary O'Neall
* Greg Shue
* Ilan Schifter
* Jesse Porter
* Joshua Watt
* Karen Bennett
* Kate Stewart
* Luis Augenstein
* Maximilian Huber
* Nicole Pappler
* Peter Monks
* Steven Carbno

## Agenda

1. Approval of last week’s minutes
2. Glossary PR — [spdx/spdx-spec#1294](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1294)
3. Examples update — [spdx/spdx-spec#1299](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1299)
4. Add `automationLevel` for AI and non-AI automation (7-level enum) — [spdx/spdx-3-model#1064](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1064)
5. Notifications
6. AI PRs (Prompt, AI Agent, relationships)
7. 3.1 Release
8. Considerations for 3.1 (backlog)

   * Allow optional version parameter in media-type — [spdx/spdx-spec#642](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/642)
   * Purl for `DownloadURL` and `DocumentNamespace` tags — [spdx/spdx-spec#372](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/372)
   * Handling symlinks in SPDX documents — [spdx/spdx-spec#610](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/610)
   * Embedding SPDX into binaries — [spdx/spdx-spec#739](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/739)

## Notifications

* FOSDEM Devroom CFP open until Nov 30 — Sunday afternoon ½-day: [https://hackmd.io/@spdx/FOSDEM-2026-CfP](https://hackmd.io/@spdx/FOSDEM-2026-CfP)
* “CRA in practice” on Saturday (½-day)
* Hardware meeting leading mapping of CRA requirements to SPDX properties/relationships
* ISO submission in final stretch; Karen to pass feedback to Alexios
* OpenChain Friday Automotive Workshop — Alexios presenting on SPDX; updates also on CycloneDX, Catena-X
* CVE.org collecting user stories for next CVE system: [https://github.com/CVEProject/consumer-working-group/issues](https://github.com/CVEProject/consumer-working-group/issues)
* Join #SBOM SIG: [https://www.linkedin.com/groups/13274064/](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/13274064/)
* BSIDES Munich (this weekend): [https://2025.bsidesmunich.org/](https://2025.bsidesmunich.org/) — SBOM generation workshop Sat: [https://pretalx.com/bsides-munich-2025/talk/QLMT3U/](https://pretalx.com/bsides-munich-2025/talk/QLMT3U/)

## Notes

* Minutes from last week approved.

### PR Decisions and Actions

* **PR #1294 (Glossary):** Agreed to merge; create a separate PR to add to normative references.
* **PR #1299 (Examples):** Agreed to merge; consider removing once CI flow is automated.

  * Joshua and Alexios to review example.
  * Gary to draft PR to automatically create example file.

### AI Automation Level Proposal (PR #1064)

* Additional info aligns with **ISO/IEC 22989:2022** terminology; proposes 7-level enum:
  0. `notAutomated`

  1. `assistiveAutomation`
  2. `partialAutomation`
  3. `conditionalAutomation`
  4. `highAutomation`
  5. `fullAutomation`
  6. `autonomous`
* Also aligned with **SAE J3016 (J3016_202104)** taxonomy; now moving through ISO as **ISO/SAE CD TS 22736**:

  * SAE J3016: [https://www.sae.org/standards/content/j3016_202104/](https://www.sae.org/standards/content/j3016_202104/)
  * ISO/SAE TS 22736 (draft): [https://www.iso.org/standard/87218.html](https://www.iso.org/standard/87218.html)

### AI PRs Status

* Prompt and AI Agent are close to ready, targeting **3.1**; lack of clear definitions for “context” and “prompting” requires extensive review and consensus-building.
* RAG likely to target **3.2**.
* Reviewing relationship types for two new classes.

### 3.1 Release

* Close **PR #1061** (replaced by **PR #1141**).
* Kate & Alexios to review **PR #1135**.
* Review outstanding items for 3.1 milestone.
* Gary & Kate to assemble a punch list.

## Backlog

* See “Backlog” tab: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y)
