# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-11-25

## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* Alfred Strauch
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Bob Martin
* Dick Brooks
* Gale McCommons
* Greg Shue
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Luis Augenstein
* Maximillian Huber
* Nicole Pappler
* Rose Judge
* Steven Carbno
* Ted Gauthier
* Victor Lu

## Agenda

* Approval of last week's minutes
* Submission status (need Alexios and Bob to weigh in)
* Agreeing on:

  * Last meeting of 2025
  * First meeting of 2026
* 3.0.2 release

  * Do we merge the ISO branch into main (`support/3.0`) to cause an update / republish

    * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1274](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1274)
* 3.1 RC1 release

  * License relationships clarification

    * Update from and add to type of `hasConcludedLicense` and `hasDeclaredLicense`: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1122](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1122)
    * Clarify `hasDeclaredLicense` and `hasConcludedLicense`: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1022](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1022)
  * What profiles will be ready for RC1?

    * Operations
    * Safety
    * AI/Dataset changes

      * Relaxing property/relationship requirements in AI and Dataset profiles: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1158](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1158)
* JSON-LD Context fails to compact

  * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1307](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1307)
* Not including version in SPDX namespace

  * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1157](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1157)
  * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1146](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1146)
* More examples

  * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/120](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/120)
  * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/125](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/125)
  * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/126](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/126)

## Notes

* Minutes: no issues, marked as approved.
* Bob and Alexios provided feedback to Seth.
* No meeting on Dec 23 and 30. Jan 6 tentative (need host, Kate and Alexios out).

### 3.0.2 (Issue [#1274](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1274))

* Agreement to do update.
* Need to identify who will do PR and deploy (ask Art or Gary to handle).
* Bob to circle back with OMG on process and determine what is needed there.
* Need to discuss how to socialize.
* ISO updates will be 3.0.3.

### 3.1

* Reached out to Steve W to review the license items.

#### Safety

* Question: what is going to be in core?
* Agreement that requirements should be core.
* Bob suggests keeping the synergy in the safety profile for the rest.
* Naming:

  * Consideration of "assurance" as a term.
  * People are looking for the term "safety".
  * In the definition, the term "assurance" should be used, but not in the title.
* Content is largely complete.
* Nicole to review current version of `safety-profile` branch and then:

  * Put the PR into main if comfortable with it, or
  * Otherwise, bring it to discussion on Friday.
* This Friday: Steven, Alfred, Nicole, and Stan to meet to get release candidate ready.
* Kate to schedule meeting with Nicole on following Monday for final push/polish.

### Security

* No updates planned for 3.1.
* Working on Signatures and Certificates for 3.2.

### Operations

* Undergoing final review.
* Waiting on design assurance/safety to be merged first.
* Operations wants to use that work to build examples and to support assessment of requirements.

### AI

* Some PRs are waiting for review.
* Looking to relax some restrictions in AI and Dataset profiles for packages.

  * There are many mandatory fields that need to be relaxed.
* Discussion in AI working group:

  * In some cases it is not possible to know certain data.
  * `NO ASSERTION` is not possible on some mandatory fields.
* Alexios:

  * Ok with relaxing some requirements.
  * Has concerns about relaxing license requirements for conformance.
  * Notes license relationship requirement and additional requirements in AI and Dataset profile.
  * Question: can we follow the case of the software profile (subclass of package)?
* General agreement with the approach of making it behave like software.
* Licensing conformance will be required to be signaled.

### JSON-LD Compaction

* Need Gary and Joshua to provide input on this.

### Examples

* Looking for reviews on the listed examples.
* Will merge after review.

### Backlog

* See backlog at "Backlog" tab:
  [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y)
