# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-10-07

## Attendees

- Alfred Strauch
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Bob Martin
- Dick Brooks
- Gary O'Neall
- Greg Shue
- Jesse Porter
- Karen Bennet
- Kate Stewart
- Luis Augenstein
- Maximillan Huber
- Nicole Pappler
- Peter Monks
- Stanislav Pankevich
- Steven Carbno
- Victor Lu

## Agenda

1. Prioritize agenda
2. Approve last week's minutes
3. Hardware and Safety profile sync
4. Continue discussion of feedback to CISA
   - All submitted comments: https://www.regulations.gov/document/CISA-2025-0007-0001/comment
5. Archiving stale SPDX repos
   - Archive tools repo and send visitors to tools-java: https://github.com/spdx/tools/issues/318
   - Other repos?
6. 2.x maintenance – most of these PRs have one review and wait for merging
   - Fix schema bug (Snippet "name" is not required in spec, but required in schema)
     - 2.2.2: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1020
     - 2.3: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1273
     - 2.3.1: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1021
   - Fix spec cardinality typo (externalDocumentRef's Required = No, but cardinality is 1..*)
     - 2.3: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1229
     - 2.3.1: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1230
7. 2.x maintenance policy / deprecation notice of older specs
   - Need to be on https://spdx.dev/use/specifications/ page as well?
   - The CISA 2025 Minimum Elements draft document said "agencies should avoid accepting SBOMs for new software generated in *deprecated versions* of any format to maintain compatibility with SBOM consumption and management tools." -- Does SPDX have a process of deprecating an SPDX version? Where do we publish that information?
8. Outreach: A website for informative/non-normative documents/guides/howtos
   - https://github.com/spdx/using/pull/16

## Notes

### General Updates

Dick noted that there is a proposal to create an SBOM Implementers Manifesto modeled after the Agile Manifesto in the #SBOM SIG: https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7381068226174275584

Stale PRs - Kate and Gary taking a pass on cleaning up backlog.

### Hardware and Safety Profile Discussion

Discussion between Safety & Hardware Profiles, and order for doing merge:
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1112/files
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1109

The PR #1109 is about "intendedUse", if we like to put it in Core. Discussion on where this belongs. Discussion of it being in Artifact, seems to be a consensus even though there are some optional fields that may not be relevant.

### Supplier Definition Discussion

**Key concepts discussed:**
- Supplier is one who interface to user
- Are tracking chain of custody or fabrication sequence - each is important and distinctly different
- Fabrication sequence had different suppliers as it is passed through the supply chain
- Software has multiple copies of same item. Hardware profile could make an item not usable
- Supply chain profile - can put info in wrong spot? Contradicting data

**Use case for supplier:**
- Who do I go to for something, party that delivered down the supply chain
- Originator - who created
- IP (web address) is transport level, and shouldn't be considered a supplier

**Example discussed:** Bought a new monitor, UPS delivered; bought through Amazon; Product is ASUS monitor. If got monitor and it was broken - contact Amazon or Asus? Warranty says ASUS, so supplier is ASUS, so they are the ones that should be providing an SBOM. Can go back to originator, but supplier is one with other contractual relationship with.

**Action:** Clean up and add into description of supplier that it is producer, and relate to supply chain.

Movement of goods should be in supply chain. But need to know who have legal association with - that is the supplier. The fact that it went through multiple warehouses, and trucks between is the transport portion of a supply chain flow.

**What about virtual hardware?** Containers? Everything is a buy/sell transaction; someone is providing/acquiring. Providing/acquiring is a set of terms. Supply chain - does the supplier field in artifact contradict the supply chain. Lack of clarity in the definition of supplier.

Discussion of removing product agent from current draft.

**Issues:** Product vs. Supply Chain. Products are made up of other products. "Your product is my component". Need to be clear about audience, and decomposition level.

Nicole questioned where manufactured. People care, require supply chain profile. Screw from manufacturer, etc.

### Gary's Summary of Action Items

1. Agree we need to review and update the definition of supplier (esp. from hardware team)
2. Supply chain should be a requirement in hardware profile
3. Supplier and subclass artifact for hardware
4. If everyone agrees with above, then we move intendedUse to Artifact, and deprecate the dataset property

Karen commented that they've discussed it in AI & Data and are fine with deprecating.

### Profile Convergence

Safety Profile converging on Hardware profile.

Once Steven updates #1119 (changing to artifact), and merges into hardware branch:
- What properties don't make sense in HW?
- Adding in commentary on optional fields that don't make sense (putting in as overrides)
- Put in as (0,0)
- Another thing is to adjust definitions in artifact to be inclusive of hardware

**Actions:**
- Please add Nicole as reviewer so she gets notification
- Nicole will review in context with Safety and comment if any outstanding issues
- If Hardware team updates pull request, then it could be discussed on Safety profile

Stan has issues with Safety profile that should be discussed.

Greg pointed out the EU CRA specifically describes who is responsible for white-labeled products (e.g., those that can be trivially re-branded).

We need it worked out sooner than later, and but should work out these wrinkles.

### Other Profile Considerations

Karen worried about AI & Data changes going forward.

Verification model - Operations may have comments. Verification method - possibly cross profile. Evidence of process being followed, etc.

Special meeting to be called for Design assurance.

Karen recommends that all the profiles review the existing relationships. Is a profile using relationship or not, are they comfortable with definition.

**AI:** Kate to set up table with relationships and checks for it.

## Future Meeting Topics

- 3.0 OR 3.1: Introducing digital/cryptographic signatures to the model: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1065
- Version series license families

## Backlog

See backlog at "Backlog" tab: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y
