# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-08-05


## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* Alfred Strauch
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Dick Brooks
* Gary Oâ€™Neall
* Greg Shue
* Ilan Schifter
* Joshua Watt
* Karen Bennet
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Matt Rutkowski
* Maximilian Huber
* Nicole Pappler
* Rose Judge
* Steven Carbno
* Ummo Schwarting
* Victor Lu

---

## Agenda & Discussion

### Safety Profile

* **Discussion on Overlaps:** There was a discussion about potential overlaps between the Operations, Hardware, and Safety profiles, particularly regarding a Requirement model.
* **Service Profile:** The 3.1-dev service profile is now live. Note that the IRI in the metadata is incorrect and will be fixed by [PR #1052](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1052).
* **Nicole's Overview:** Nicole provided a summary of the planned classes for 3.1, including the rationale for new fields.
* **Threat Modeling:** Karsten raised the idea of including threat modeling. Greg noted this would be important for **CRA compliance**. A proposal for a new "Threat Modeling" profile was suggested. Ummo noted that this could also be part of the operations profile.
* **Volunteers:** Karsten agreed to lead the threat modeling effort, with Nicole, Alfred, Kate, Greg, and Steven expressing interest in contributing.

### 3.1 Updates

* **Model Documentation:** PR [\#1048](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1048) updates the versions in the model documentation.
* **RDF URLs:** PR [\#1052](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1052) updates the versions in the RDF URLs.

### Digital/Cryptographic Signatures

* This issue ([\#1065](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1065)) was raised for consideration in either version **3.0 or 3.1**.

### Software Component

* **PR [\#1044](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1044):** Alexios presented this proposal, which aims to **reduce data duplication** by using a more generic component class.
* **Joshua's Feedback:** Joshua from Zephyr noted this would save a significant amount of space and was generally in favor. He proposed using a relationship between packages instead of a new `Component` class and also suggested a fan-out relationship from a single component to multiple concrete packages.
* **High-Level Issues Discussed:**
    * The direction of the relationship between components and packages.
    * The balance between document size and consumer implementation complexity.
    * The relationship between packages and components versus the relationship between components themselves.

### Other Pull Requests

* **Revise Core/standardName and AI/standardCompliance:** PR [\#1067](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1067) aims to clarify the relationship between these two descriptions.
* **Add Dataset/inLanguage:** PR [\#1066](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1066) adds this property.

---

## Notes

### Spec Translation

* An email will be sent to Rex to initiate the translation of the spec into a **Word document**.
* The bulk of the translation can be automated, though some manual edits will be needed.
* Language translations will begin after the Word version is complete.

---

## Future Meeting Topics

* A discussion on overlaps between Operations, Hardware, and Safety profiles (e.g., Requirement model).
* **August 12:** Michael Herzog will provide a PURL update.

---

## Backlog

* The backlog can be viewed on the **"Backlog"** tab of the Google Doc: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y)
