# SPDX Tech Team Meeting – 2025-07-22

## Attendees
- Alfred Strauch  
- Bob Martin  
- Dick Brooks  
- Gary O’Neall  
- Greg Shue  
- Ilan Schifter  
- Joshua Watts  
- Kate Stewart  
- Matt Rutkowski  
- Nicole Pappler  
- Rose Judge  
- Steven Carbno  
- toscaliz  

---

## Agenda
- Approve previous minutes  
- Operations Profile  
- Re-org SPDX repo (add `spdx-tools` org and move tooling projects there)  
- BSI TR-03183  

---

## Notes

### Operations Profile
- Video presentation by Ummo on the Operations Profile.
- Scope refined to focus on *business operations* and *specific processes*.
- Examples are being added to support clarity.
- Ilan noted appreciation for the explanation of *why* the profile exists and what gap it addresses.
- Metadata considerations to improve communication of operation components (e.g., Export, Control, Cryptography).
- Discussion around shifting information and using relationships to express it.
- Question raised: When will a PR be available to begin integration?
- **Update branch needed ASAP.**
- Need to resolve Lifecycle & Supply Chain alignment. Hardware & Operations must be in sync.
- Aim to incorporate anything that affects **Core** into RC1.
- **Action:** Target Ummo and Marcel to attend next meeting.

### Release Candidate Initial Criteria
- Core should be solid.
- Hardware profile updates needed.
- Security and other profile updates also expected.

### Reorganization of SPDX GitHub Organization
- Plan to split into different organizations (e.g., `spdx-tools`).
- Discussion of a landing page.
- A public repo called `.github` will serve as README landing for work:  
  https://github.com/spdx/.github/tree/main/profile
- Outreach team to help compose content — **Bob & Ilan to lead**.
- Proposal to move untouched/legacy repos to ATTIC.
- Use GitHub **TOPICs** to classify repos (visible under "About").
- Licensing: CC0 or Community License recommended for `.github`.
- **Joshua and Ilan** added as maintainers for the `.github` repo.
- **Ilan to follow up with the outreach team.**

### BSI TR-03183
- Joshua is reviewing SBOMs and CRAs context.
- Version 2 was published in Sept 2024.
- Architecture-related issues noted in SPDX repo.
- BSI Extension agreed to be added to repo.
- **Request to add Joshua** to maintainers for the extension.

---

## Announcements
- Allan Friedman is leaving CISA.
- Future CISA SBOM community meetings are **TBD**.
- Hardware focus discussion concluded.

---

## Future Meeting Topics
- **Jul 29, 2025**: Demo by Alfred & Steven – SPDX 3.1 tooling demo  
- **Aug 5, 2025**: Safety topics – Nicole  
- **Licensing**: Joint call to be scheduled  
