# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-02-25

## Attendees

- Alfred Strauch
- Bob Martin
- Dick Brooks
- Ilan Schifter
- Joshua Watt
- Karsten Klein
- Kate Stewart
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Steven Carbno


## Agenda

- Tool Catalog from Marius:  https://sbom-catalog.openssf.org/catalog/
- Add your FOSS compliance tools here https://github.com/aboutcode-org/workshop.
- SPDX 3.1 timing


## Notes

### Tool Adoption and Discovery
   - Kate to send email to Marius, point to aboutcode-org/workshop tools list. 
   - Concern about SPDX Tools on website:  Corrections need to be made in SPDX site.  (insert link);
   - Yocto & Zephyr(West) should look at being added SPDX Tools as well.
   - Populate new repositories: https://spdx.dev/use/spdx-tools
      - Bob, that's the site I'm saying is missing many of the tools that were listed in the previous tools catalog
   
### SHACL
  - Ilan noted need a participant for historical perspective.   Joshua provided some.    Need to see Sean, Alexios and/or Gary participating to make forward progress. 
  - When running SHACL validator, there are some surprises.  Concern on inheritance of rules.   Some progress has been made.   Want to get this working before adding the new issues for upcoming rules.    Joshua wondering about invocation of validation, to be followed up in next meeting. 
  
### SPDX 3.1
  - Any known issues:  Open an Issue in model or spec;  tag with 3.1 and appropriate profile. 
  - New Profiles:
      - Services - Gary - 2Q for RC
      - Operations - Ummo & Marcel & Matthew - 3Q for RC
      - Hardware - Alfred & Steven - 2Q for RC;   Model submission to repo being started. 
      - Functional Safety - Nicole.   - 3Q for starting point.
  - Updates to existing Profiles:
    - AI - 3Q
    - Data - 3Q
    - Build?  Overlap with others
    - Licensing? (Implementers call discussion with Peter Monk)

- Microsoft & AMD have asked about path forward in hardware side. 
   - AMD needs to proceed with specific requirements that have been included.   Specific amount of supply chain interaction is going to be needed. 
   - Microsoft used action methodology to prototype a supply chain. 
   - Hardware Supply chain compatible language and constructs? Does it make sense to be included in SPDX? 
   - Want to make sure no conflicts with SCITT
   
- Potential Timeline: 
- 2025Q2: RC1:   Hardware & Services & new fields from AI, Data, ....(other existing profiles)
- 2025Q3: RC2:  Operation, Safety?  fixes from RC1 profiles from experiments.
- 2025Q4/2026Q1 - 3.1 Release 

- Concern points:
    - Paragraphs to explain new fields, and how to leverage for new profiles - is going to 
    - Map fields to standards and other existing work as tables for reference work.
    - Relationships & Core needing to be used to understand what's possible in some cases and explained better. 
    - Tools for profiles themselves.

- Other Community Factors:
  - Yocto LTS - April 2026
  - Zephyr LTS - Summer 2026
