# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-02-18

## Attendees

- Adolfo Garcia Veytia
- Alfred Strauch
- Bob Martin
- Dick Brooks
- Ilan Schifter
- Joshua Watt
- Karsten Klein
- Kate Stewart
- Maximilian Huber
- Peter Monks
- Steven Carbno
- Victor Lu

## Agenda

- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/969 - Joshua
- SHACL update - Ilan
- Functional Design Assurance (Steven & Alfred)

## Notes

- 969
   - Emerged from Yocto use case.
   - Target 3.1 - and discussion of how to deprecate the string, rather than the elements.

- SHACL - Ilan.
   - Does not do invariants. 
   - There are ways to explicitly list the subclasses, and list as target classes. 
   - So limited SHACL rule enforcement down the tree.
   - Had initial meeting yesterday,  with some open issues.   Marked as SHACL with 3.1
   - Finding issue by implement a point discussed yesterday.
   
- Functional Design Assurance overview
  - Working through examples from Microsoft & AMD
  - Where in supply chain reside is an important aspect. 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/18Bhej8v9kcDTU9a_vfFL9CGgQFDVYO0Kw46SNu5uTV8/edit?usp=sharing
  - Definition Document:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RiH4WZQ0Fb1vBMOU88NYar__LYzZ08FsxxqxNG-fILc/edit?tab=t.0
  - Bob: Would "Activity" be a better name than "Action"?   Event was tried, but it wasn't as clear.    Word Action implies a very short time frame.    Activity could be used for longer periods.
  - Open Question on decomposition - how far do we need to go. 
  - Bob suggests that in describing of actions - we should include examples that are months and year long. 
  - It should be noted that action doesn't have to have a defined end time at this point. 
  - Hardware Supply Chain Slides- https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DySQNSZYjl2anUkbZzNQxjIo1pwGsEvtUdX6OFyy9Iw/edit#slide=id.p
  - Ilan - points out process ;  comes from "defined process" class.    Possibly should be a different word for process - will get a lot of people confused.   Process to SW Engineer vs Manufacturing a product.   Consider the word "Procedure"?   Plan has sequence of steps.   Concept of terminologies that are flexible and descriptive is a challenge. 
- Note:  Processes can contain processes.   Decompositionable. 
- Kate: Have considered other standards for this vocabulary?   Yes, Bob has brought some up in working group, and they have been reviewed to resolve.
- Bob: Have looked at ways of conveying assurance cases?   "Claims" instead of "requirements".    Structured assurance case metamodel.  GSN is now based on it. 
  - Discussion about artifact - confusion with "artifact" definition is more concrete than we may want to consider right now.    Evolved description of artifact should probably be ok.   It would be helpful to expand to be explicit it could be description.
