# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-04-15

## Attendees

- Alexios Zavras
- Alfred Strauch
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Colin McAllister
- Gary O'Neall
- Ilan Schifter
- Joshua Watt
- Karen Bennet
- Kate Stewart
- Nicole Pappler
- Peter Monks
- Sean Barnum
- Steven Carbno
- Victor Lu

## Agenda

- Use "SPDX 3 JSON" instead of "SPDX 3 JSON-LD"
  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1008

## Notes

### spdx-3-model/issues/1008
- No disagreement raised on the revised wording.    Discussion about documentation not being read,  JSON-LD optimizations, etc.  to remind them that there is a defined schema now.   
- Confusion on #serialization/overiew;  action:
    - Update description "SPDX 3 JSON";  
    - How it fits into theoverall serialization.
    - Clarify that for people writing tools should implement the SPDX 3 JSON when they produce documents.
- Sean: Has a "shape" been defined?  No, not yet.   Possible to constrain how JSON LD is output to a specific "shape" to be investigated.
  - Sean - it is called "framing" - link: https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11-framing/
- 3 actions: on https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/develop/docs/serializations.md
    - Update definition of SPDX 3 JSON per wording in issue - Art
    - Update Overview to describe the 3 sections/layers - Alexios
    - Investigate JSON LD framing to see if it can help tooling - Joshua - see if we can emit it from SHALC2Code
    - Target 3.1 - due to potential impact to standards effort
    - Point to the 3.1 definitions for anyone actively development
- Peter - question on Cannonical - is it a reccomendation or requirement for SPDX spec?
  - Sean, Gary - Reccomendation
  - Suggestion that we create a linter

### OpenJS - JavaScript
- Victor - no SBOM format - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VmmOivNJeocns_5XN3ijcpR4BMmz4-mVoGjqvBmOnY8/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.m9nc0aibj5z5 
- Can SPDX be used?
- SPDX is generated from NPM today
- Action: all - review the above document to see if SPDX can be interoperable

### Other items
- In email, Rose was going to restart the security working group.
