# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-08-26

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Alfred Strauch
* Bob Martin
* Gary Oâ€™Neall
* Ilan Schifter
* Karen Bennet
* Nisha Kumar
* Steven Carbno

---

## Agenda
* Prioritize agenda
* **"NONE" and "NOASSERTION" in license expression**:
    * [PR Discussion #1262](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1262#discussion_r2285769285)
    * [Issue #49](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/49)
    * [Issue #50](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/50)
* **FYI**: New draft proposal for minimum SBOM elements
* **JSON-LD identifiers are not dereferenceable**: [Issue #1259](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1259)
* **Make 3.0 RDF URLs work** (due to new version policy: MAJOR.MINOR):
    1.  Update version in `annotations.ttl`: [PR #1242](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1242)
    2.  Setup RDF and schema URL directions: [Issue #1246](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1246)
    3.  Update example checks in CI: [PR #1247](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1247)
* **Make 3.1 RDF URLs work** (for testing 3.1-rc):
    1.  Update version in `annotations.ttl`: [PR #1243](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1243)
    2.  Setup RDF and schema URL directions: [Issue #1249](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1249)
    3.  Update example checks in CI: [PR #1244](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1244)
* **3.0 OR 3.1**: Introducing digital/cryptographic signatures to the model: [Issue #1065](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1065)
* Version series license families
* Review of supply chain profile: [PR #1098](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1098)

---

## Notes

### "NONE" and "NOASSERTION" in license expression
* **Discussion**: Should the spec use quotes or backticks for operators?
    * **Consensus**: Use **quotes** (`" "`) as they are easier to read and render better in titles.
* **Discussion**: Should `NONE` and `NOASSERTION` be added to the official license list?
    * This would require a change to the RDF specification.
    * The legal team may have concerns about adding them.
    * **Decision**: Agreed to separate this into a different issue to be resolved in the future. The current state will be maintained for now.

### New draft proposal for minimum SBOM requirements
* Links to the new CISA draft proposal for minimum SBOM elements:
    * [Main Resource Page](https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/resources/2025-minimum-elements-software-bill-materials-sbom)
    * [2025 Minimum Elements PDF](https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2025-08/2025_CISA_SBOM_Minimum_Elements.pdf)
    * [SBOM Framing Document](https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2024-10/SBOM%20Framing%20Software%20Component%20Transparency%202024.pdf)

### Hardware supply chain separation
* Please review the work in progress here: [stevenc-stb/spdx-3-model branch](https://github.com/stevenc-stb/spdx-3-model/tree/stevenc-stb-patch-1/model/SupplyChain). This will be in the `profile-hardware` branch once its PR is merged.
* A concern was raised that the term "package" is used but not defined in a way that captures both hardware and software.
* **Action Items**:
    * Gary will create an issue for further discussion.
    * The Hardware group will draft a definition of "package" for review. The final definition might end up in a glossary.

---

## Future Meeting topics
* Discussion on any overlaps between Operations, Hardware, and Safety (e.g., Requirement model)
* AI/Dataset Profiles 3.1 (fields about foundational model) - Gopi

---

## Backlog
* See the backlog at the "Backlog" tab: [SPDX Tech Team - Meeting Agenda & Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y)
