# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-01-07

## Attendees

- Alexios Zavras
- Alfred Strauch
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Arturo Ruiz
- Bob Martin
- David Edelsohn
- Dick Brooks
- Gary O'Neall
- Ilan Schifter
- Joshua Watt
- Karsten Klein
- Kate Stewart
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Peter Monks
- Steven Carbno

## Agenda

- Approve meeting minutes https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pulls 
  - Five here: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/labels/Tech 

- CRA - how are services being handled.
- 3.0.1 released
  - https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0.1/
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/releases/tag/3.0.1
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/releases/tag/3.0.1
- Review Hardware Profile (planned for Jan 13th)
  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/947
   - discuss comments with group.
- Translations
  - Add English as normative notes
    https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1170
    https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/946
  - Japanese/Chinese reviewers needed
    https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/labels/Translation%3Aja
    https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/labels/Translation%3Azh-Hans
  - Translation Decisions, documentation and TODOs
    https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1169
- CI
  - Update publish CI for support/2.3 branch
    https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1172
  - Add spdx3-validate to examples validation workflow
    https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1134
    https://github.com/spdx/using/pull/14
- Documentation
  - Update branch names in CONTRIBUTNG.md
    https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1171
  - Update copy command in MkDocs build instruction to prevent copying to wrong location
    https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1148
- 3.1
  - Add SupportRelationship
    https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/728

## Notes

Happy New Year everyone.

- Hardware Profile
  - Should "Originated by" be a property or relationship?   Immutable - It should always be the same for a specific item.   If it's known and will never change, fine to be a property.    Description needs to be updated - we need to be more specific in the description?  Commit may need to still be updated?   Became an Agent, not just an organization.   May need to tease apart the intelectual property holder.   Supply chain would show manufacturing.    Agent responsible for batch number, part number & serial number (drop owning IP as this is ambiguous).
  - "Process class" - needed by Functional Safety & Hardware Profile. - build has processes so we need to deconflict.   Description of the process.   Running of the process would be an "action".   Multiple runs associated with sames process.    Can we change this to "process plan"?   "Defined Process" would be more of a descriptor.  Build is a specific instance that has happened (like an action).   Linking a process to a build.
- Discussion of inheritance:  Common parent for hardware and software.   So it's a question if the abstraction could be a concrete instance in profile A and profile B.   Concensus emerging since its hardware and software relevant, so it should be in core.
- Need to do more work on supply chain and present it separately.
- What use action for?   Anything that is an event as instantiation of some process plan - build,  shipping, storing in warehouse, CI run.
- Would it be possible to make build a subclass of "action". - version & type of action.  Possible to automate conversion.   Any required parameters in parent class?   If not, we could do a compatible change.
- Ilan points out that "Action" - should have a start and end time.   Good thing for core.
- Joshua points out that build doesn't have requirements.
- Ilan volunteered to give an overview of PROV-O.

- Note: trying to separate hardware profile discussion from that of Action/PROV-O profiles.
- Methodology for dealing with processes associated with supply chains after the hardware profile figured out.

### 3.0.1 is published
- redirect will be replaced with html pages.
- RDF pages have been published (redirects to regular website).   Alexios to generate, Gary to upload. 

### Minutes Process Changes
- switch to formal approval at start of next meeting
- Five here: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/labels/Tech still outstanding  - Kate to check which ones she was at and clean up. 

### Translations
- Translation Decisions, documentation and TODOs
  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1169
- Different points between Alexios and Gary discussed. 
- Order 3.0.1, and then will be 3.0.1-hn;  3.0.1-de, etc.   And may included multiple prior added languages.   This means that the language is present from this point onward.    What about if there is a fix?   how should it be handled?   how about 3.0.1-hn-2,   seems to be agreement.   Gary volunteers to document it. 
- MkDocs will need to be updated to incorporate, as will the spec-parser. HTML in different languages & in SHACL files as different annotations.
  - Ilan - how will serializations handle this?   Alexios - good point to be discussed. 
  - Decided we want to include translated summaries in Ontology - generate markdown files for languages, and summaries as RDF comments. See example of RDF summaries in different language here: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/develop/docs/translation.md#model-translation-example
- Add English as normative notes
  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1170
  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/946
- Japanese/Chinese reviewers needed
  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/labels/Translation%3Aja
  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/labels/Translation%3Azh-Hans

### Announcements
- SBOM Devroom schedule: https://fosdem.org/2025/schedule/track/sbom/

## To Do List:
- those working on processes to review PROV-O ontology https://www.w3.org/TR/prov-o/
- hardware and safety team to think about build profile compatiblity (so it can be aligned).
- update descriptions in build profile to reflect understanding for common classes. 
- Gary to document the naming for translations now we've made a decision. 
- Mkdocs need to be made to work for languages. 

## Future Agenda:
- 1/14 - Hardware Profile - Steve & Albert
- 1/21 - PROV-O - Ilan (Gary out)
- 1/28 - TEA protocol (if Olle available) and possible Services?
- 2/4 - SHACL Validations (include where to add) and/or Translations  (Kate out)
