# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-08-19

## Attendees

  * Alexios Zavras
  * Alfred Strauch
  * Arthit Suriyawongkul
  * Bob Martin
  * Dick Brooks
  * Gary Oâ€™Neall
  * Henk Birkholz
  * Joshua Watt
  * Karsten Klein
  * Maximilian Huber
  * Nicole Pappler
  * Peter Monks
  * Steven Carbno

-----

## Agenda

  * Prioritize agenda
  * License Expressions case insensitivity question [Alexios]
  * Separating supply chain from the hardware bill of materials
  * **3.1**
      * Need approval - Update version number in RDF URLs: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1052](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1052)
      * Need approval - Update version number in model documentation: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1048](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1048)
  * **3.0 OR 3.1**: Introducing digital/cryptographic signatures to the model: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1065](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1065) - *start with this next week*
  * JSON-LD identifiers are not dereferenceable: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1259](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1259)
  * AI team needs feedback on `AutomationLevel` enum (borrowed from ISO/IEC 22989:2022) - Could other non-AI profiles use this? [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1064](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1064)
  * Version series license families

-----

## Notes

### License expression case insensitive question

  * Alexios has been reworking the annex.
  * **Proposal:** Make the entire license expression syntax case-insensitive to simplify it.
      * Currently, the only case-sensitive parts are operators (must be all upper or all lower, not mixed) and the specific terms `LicenseRef`, `AdditionRef`, and `DocumentRef`.
  * **Consensus:** The team agrees to make the entire syntax **case-insensitive**.
  * **Action:** Alexios will update the annex to include `DocumentRef` and then update the PR ([\#1262](https://www.google.com/search?q=https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1262)) to reflect this change.

### ISO Formatting

  * The team is working on converting the Markdown specification into an MS Word document for the ISO submission.
  * Alexios is transforming headings and will send an update to Rex next week for finalization, after which some manual work will still be required.

### Separating supply chain from the bill of materials

  * **Proposal:** Have `SupplyChain` as a separate profile that can apply to both software and hardware.
  * This new profile has some overlap with the current `Build` profile, which was designed to align with SLSA but is no longer in sync. The `SupplyChain` profile could incorporate important parts of the `Build` profile.
  * The `SupplyChain` profile will deal with general artifacts and should be able to function independently of the Hardware profile.
  * The **Hardware group has approved** this separation.
  * **Action:** Steven will create a pull request in the hardware branch to create the separate Supply Chain profile. He will also check for hardware-specifics that need to be removed and any potential breaking changes for build functionality.
  * The `Build` profile may be deprecated in a future release post-3.1.

### Update version number in RDF URLs (PR \#1052)

  * **URL:** [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1052](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1052)
  * **Decision:** **Approved** to update the version in the develop branch from `3.0.1` to `3.1`.

### Update version number in model documentation (PR \#1048)

  * **URL:** [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1048](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1048)
  * **Action:** Everything will be changed to "SPDX 3". Arthit will take this on.

### JSON-LD identifiers are not dereferenceable (Issue \#1259)

  * **URL:** [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1259](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1259)
  * **Discussion:** URLs should include at least the major version. A major-only version (e.g., `/3/`) will point to the latest published `major.minor` version.

### AI team feedback on AutomationLevel enum (PR \#1064)

  * **URL:** [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1064](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1064)
  * **Action:** Team members are asked to review the PR and comment on the issue with feedback.

-----

## Future Meeting Topics

  * Discussion on any overlaps between Operations, Hardware, and Safety (e.g., Requirement model)
  * AI/Dataset Profiles 3.1 (fields about foundational models) - Gopi

-----

## Backlog

  * See the backlog at the "Backlog" tab in the shared document: [SPDX Tech Team - Meeting Agenda & Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y)
