# SPDX Tech Team Meeting – 2025-06-03

## Attendees

* Alfred Strauch
* Steven Carbno
* Nisha Kumar
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Ilan Schifter
* Victor Lu
* Dick Brooks
* Bob Martin

## Agenda

* Approve previous minutes
* Prioritize agenda
* SPDX Examples question
* General announcements

---

## Backlog

* **Clarify `hasDeclaredLicense` and `hasConcludedLicense`**
  [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1022](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1022)

  * Call will be scheduled with Legal to discuss this.

* **Suggested changes for `SoftwareService` description**
  [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1013](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1013) ⇒ PR ?

* **3.0.1 Spec Update**

  * Approve post-3.0.1 change log: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1001](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1001)

### 2.3 Spec Update

* **New relationships in SPDX 2.3 spec?** (Rose)
* **\[2.3] Fix broken Figure C.1 in Annex C**
  [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1222](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1222)
* **\[2.3] Enable syntax highlighting for ABNF/XML**
  [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1210](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1210)
* **\[2.3] Publish schema doc**
  [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1221](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1221)
* **\[2.3.1] Fix broken Figure C.1 in Annex C**
  [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1223](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1223)
* **\[2.3.1] Fix formatting/code highlight in Annex K**
  [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1115](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1115)
* **\[2.3.1] Fix typos in schema descriptions**
  [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1226](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1226)
* **\[2.3.1] Update version in front page**
  [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1218](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1218)
* **\[2.3.1] Publish schema doc**
  [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1220](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1220)

---

## Notes

* **Add example SPDX 3.0 files**
  [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/106](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/106)

* Nisha is looking for human-readable documentation for conversion and tool support.

  * Joshua pointed to the “Using” repo: [https://github.com/spdx/using](https://github.com/spdx/using)

### News & Announcements

* SBOM minimum-content use-case document open for review until **June 16**.

* AI BOM use-case document open for feedback until **June 4**.

* Microsoft **sbom-tool** now supports generation and validation of SPDX 3.0:
  [https://github.com/microsoft/sbom-tool/releases/tag/v4.0.3](https://github.com/microsoft/sbom-tool/releases/tag/v4.0.3)

* **SBOM Special Interest Group (SIG)** launched to help practitioners implement SPDX and CycloneDX SBOMs: [https://www.linkedin.com/groups/13274064/](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/13274064/)

  * Outreach team to publicize.
  * Add links to SPDX implementers call.
  * Each working group to provide a summary for the monthly call (send to Rose).
  * Kate to confirm who sends the requests (Rose, Rob, ?).

* Joint meeting with Legal penciled in for **July** (date TBD).

* Associated License discussions and any further mentions captured for follow-up.

### Technical Operations Working Group

* **Operations Profile** clarified as “business operations” and nearing completion.

* Coordination needed with Configuration group; clarify goals and objectives regarding planned versus managed configurations.

* Harmonization required across Build, Hardware, Data, AI, Safety, Risk Management.

* Bob will provide linkage to hardening guidance resources:

  * [https://saf.mitre.org/](https://saf.mitre.org/)
  * [https://anchore.com/blog/automate-stig-compliance-with-mitre-saf/](https://anchore.com/blog/automate-stig-compliance-with-mitre-saf/)

* Usage profile from Japanese community shows overlap; Kate to review historical work.

* Ongoing discussions on lifecycle considerations (datasets, models, hardware) and operational metrics collection.

* SHACL extension bug fix proposed for 3.0.1 inclusion:
  [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1017#issuecomment-2822649891](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1017#issuecomment-2822649891)

  * Ilan, Bob, and Joshua agreed to move forward with the re-release.

---

## Future Meetings

* **Business Operations Review** – target **June 17**
* **General Meeting** – **July 3**
