# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-12-02

## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* Alfred Strauch
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Bob Martin
* Dick Brooks
* Gale McCommons
* Greg Shue
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Luis Augenstein
* Maximillian Huber
* Nicole Pappler
* Peter Monks
* Rose Judge
* Steven Carbno
* Ted Gauthier
* Victor Lu

---

##  Agenda

1.  Approval of last week's minutes
2.  Announcements
3.  Safety Profile Naming
4.  3.1 RC1 release readiness - pending PRs needing review?
5.  JSON-LD Compaction - Need Gary & Joshua
6.  SPDX Examples - Reviewers

---

## Notes

### Minutes

* **Kate Stewart** was added to the 11/25 attendees list.
* The minutes were approved upon the completion of this fix.

### Announcements

* **SPDX 3.0** was submitted to **ISO** by JDF & OMG.
* The topic of the next monthly call will be the **Cyber Resilience Act (CRA)**.
* **Bob Martin** and **Joshua Watt** will provide an update for the tech team.
* Relevant insights for the EU CRA are available in the **#SBOM SIG** on LinkedIn: [https://www.linkedin.com/groups/13274064/](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/13274064/)
* An Energy Industry meeting on December 15th will discuss software vulnerability reporting and monitoring: [https://www.energycentral.com/intelligent-utility/post/naesb-meeting-to-discuss-software-vulnerability-reporting-PKUN6lWiKLiI8Rj](https://www.energycentral.com/intelligent-utility/post/naesb-meeting-to-discuss-software-vulnerability-reporting-PKUN6lWiKLiI8Rj)

### Safety Profile Naming

* The scope being covered is **bigger than just functional safety**.
* **"Functional Assurance"** was suggested as not resonating well.
* The team considered **"Systems Engineering"** as a better name, with safety, security engineering practices, etc., as potential flavors, focusing on the systematic capability part.
* Requirements would remain in core, but things like product line engineering could be included.
* **Bob Martin** raised a concern that system engineers may treat everything as blocks, potentially losing the required level of fidelity.
* **Steven Carbno** suggested that some aspects of **Design Assurance** would be better placed in Systems Engineering rather than Core, which is part of the motivation for renaming.

### 3.1-RC1

* Requirements are moving to **Core**. They describe expectations.
* **Nicole Pappler** to tackle this.
* Three new PRs with safety content need to be sorted out.
* Other PRs waiting to be merged into Core:
    * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1174](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1174)
    * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1122](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1122)

### JSON-LD Compaction

* Discussed issue: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1307](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1307)
* **Joshua Watt** thinks that using `@container: @set` wouldn't be too difficult, requiring changes in the `spdx/spec-parser` tool: [https://github.com/spdx/spec-parser](https://github.com/spdx/spec-parser)
* **Maximillian Huber** pointed out issues with **SPDXID generation** from `@element` and `@elementid`.
* **Art Suriyawongkul** asked if this should be documented in the specification.
* **Joshua Watt** mentioned that the schema is passing, but it's an open question on how to make the **JSON-LD context** work with other tooling.
* **Maximillian Huber** noted that random objects could get an ID; only explicit objects should. Derived objects may be the source of the issue.
* An **Extension** discussion may be relevant and worth revisiting for 3.1. Extensions may need to use `@id` instead of **SPDX id**.
* It was asked if all objects with **SPDXid** should be listed in the spec parser. Unofficial extending would be harder. Relevant link: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/develop/model/Extension/Classes/Extension.md](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/develop/model/Extension/Classes/Extension.md)
* A follow-up discussion is scheduled for the implementers call tomorrow.
* Tools able to validate external references: [https://github.com/JPEWdev/spdx3-validate](https://github.com/JPEWdev/spdx3-validate)

### Examples:

* How to express context for a product?
* Validation examples are needed.
* Reviewers are still needed for:
    * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/126](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/126)
    * A use case based on **CRA requirements** (stakeholder needs) to determine what types of artifacts can be represented in SPDX.
    * PR by **Dick Brooks** adding fields to pass NTIA minimum elements/CISA Framing Software Component Transparency: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/120](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/120)
* **Dick Brooks** expressed concern about the vulnerability CVE hitting in March 2026 before the CRA focus.
* The team agreed that focusing on **how SPDX can answer CRA** is likely more on point.
* A PR sets up the structure for system engineering practices for product manufacturers.
* The team discussed whether **SPDX as a language** can submit the data for **conformance assessment**. An SBOM is insufficient to meet CRA requirements, as several other things must be submitted (Annex I and Annex VII are in this PR). This relates to a strategy for providing **regulatory compliance information**.
* Examples discussed: How can **user documentation** be conveyed via SPDX to fulfill specific clauses in CRA? How to convey the **design of a product's internals**?

### Backlog

* See the backlog at the "Backlog" tab in the Google Doc: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y)
---
