# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-09-16

## Attendees

1. Alfred Strauch
2. Arthit Suriyawongkul
3. Dick Brooks
4. Elyas Rashno
5. Gary O'Neall
6. Gopi Krishnan Rajbahadur
7. Greg Shue
8. Helio Chissini de Castro
9. Joshua Watt
10. Karen Bennet
11. Karsten Klein
12. Kate Stewart
13. Marc-Etienne Vargenau
14. Maximillian Huber
15. Nicole Pappler
16. Nishanth
17. Peter Monks
18. Rose Judge
19. Steven Carbno

## Agenda

- Prioritize agenda
- Approve last week's minutes
- AI/Dataset Profiles 3.1 (fields about foundational model/RAG) - Gopi/Elyas/Kate
- Continue discussion of feedback to CISA
- 2.3 issues
  - Clarification Needed on SPDX File Relationships in Absence of Direct Mapping https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1227
  - SPDX 2.3.0 schema conflicts with documentation for Annotations https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1147

## Notes

- Agreed to approve minutes
- Rearranged agenda

### Clarification Needed on SPDX File Relationships in Absence of Direct Mapping
*Issue: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1227*

- We lack a relationship for describing the modified files to originating upstream. At a file to file level, we are coherent. But set of files modified from Upstream package.
- Possibly consider derived from and contains. Also issue of which files are not present needs to be considered. Pick this up again next week. Looking for solution to use existing relationship, or consider adding one for upcoming version.

### AI/Dataset Profile 3.1 (Gopi/Elyas/Karen)

- Gopi went through presentation, to explain the extensions for promptware vs agentware to interact with foundational models
- Issue of sub-profiles, and dependencies between profiles may be needed for Agents and Prompts to be subprofiles of AI model. Since this was explicitly restricted before to only have dependencies on Software and Core. If we do this, we have to check that circular dependencies may not emerge. You should be able to definitely references, but have to be careful that no circular dependency emerge.
- Max suggests this all just be part of AI profile, and there's classes for Prompt and Agent, rather than separate sub-profile. Steven showed a diagram with just classes, and there was general agreement that circular dependencies can emerge.
- **Tentative decision:** ok to have class based dependencies between non core & software, and they do not create circular dependencies.
  - **ACTION:** Check with Alexios about Prompt class referencing Data & AI Profiles (we had it listed to the Software & Core profiles).
- Subprofiles vs. Classes? We discussed this and it should be classes, based on the discussions. Art pointed out "This relaxation may slow the growth rate of Core profile too. As currently, sometimes we upgrade things to Core because of inter-profile limitations"
  - **ACTION:** look at moving recent additions to core should be moved back to more logical profiles.

### Brief Discussion on Prompts and Requirements

- Brief question from Greg at very end on how prompts and requirements should be interacting. Kate pointed out that prompts are like operating a machine, and would trace back to requirements.
  - **ACTION:** Check we have a relationship to capture this dynamic between requirements class and prompts in the safety profile work.

### Next Steps

- Next week: Focus on feedback to CISA response.

## Future Meeting Topics

- Continue discussion of feedback to CISA
- 3.0 OR 3.1: Introducing digital/cryptographic signatures to the model: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1065
- Version series license families

## Backlog

- See backlog at **"Backlog"** tab https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y
