# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-09-02

## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* Alfred Strauch
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Bob Martin
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O’Neall
* Greg Shue
* Henk Birkholz
* Ilan Schifter
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Nicole Pappler
* Nisha Kumar
* Steven Carbno
* Victor Lu

---

## Agenda

* Prioritize agenda
* Approve last week’s minutes
* **JSON-LD identifiers are not dereferenceable**: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1259](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1259)
* **Software component** - proposal - include in 3.0
* **Review of supply chain profile**: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1098](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1098)
* Discussion on any overlaps between Operations, Hardware and Safety (e.g. Requirement model)
* 2025 NITA Minimum Elements RFC

---

## Notes

### Tools Update

* A question was raised about the Python tools, which have not been updated recently.
* The project is **not abandoned**, but it needs more resources. A new release could help with visibility.
* There is a newer, lower-level Python library that supports SPDX 3 and any RDF graph model, but it does not support SPDX 2.

### JSON-LD identifiers not dereferenceable

* Ilan has created a script that generates the necessary redirect information from the RDF model, which can then be uploaded to S3.
* The issue covers both machine-readable and human-readable redirects.
* **Action Items**:
    * Gary will test the script.
    * Ilan will update the issue with documentation for the script.
    * Gary will research other tools that can handle content type redirects.

### Software Component

* Ilan raised concerns that moving the software component to Core could be a breaking change.
* There is strong support (Joshua, Bob, Gary, Alexios) for merging it now for version 3.0.
* A potential solution to avoid a breaking change is to introduce a Core abstract class above the software component.
* **Action Item**: Continue the discussion on the pull request and make a final decision by the end of the week on whether to merge for 3.0: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1044](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1044).

---

## Future Meeting Topics

* AI/Dataset Profiles 3.1 (fields about foundational model) - Gopi
* 3.0 OR 3.1: Introducing digital/cryptographic signatures to the model: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1065](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1065)
* Version series license families

---

## Backlog

* See the backlog at the "Backlog" tab: [SPDX Tech Team - Meeting Agenda & Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y)
