# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-01-21

## Attendees

- Alexios Zavras
- Alfred Strauch
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Dick Brooks
- Gary O'Neall
- Henk Birkholz
- Illan Schifter
- Joshua Watt
- Kate Stewart
- Karsten Klein
- Steven Carbno

## Agenda

- PROV-O - Ilan
- Translation checkpoint
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3ATranslation%3Aja
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3ATranslation%3Azh-Hans

## Notes

### PROV-O & BFO overview
- PROV - history of how data and artifacts are created an modified.
- We have some of this in Build Profile (creating audit trail of process for instance). 
- How events influence data.   Integrate into a tree of events for back in time.   
- Has used PROV ontology to build something like this.
- Looking at capturing low level sequence of events so we can detect sequences of attacks in future.
- Compared and contrasted PROV-O vs. BFO
- Henk pointed out there are various versions of bfo... bfo includes plannedProcess, bfo2020 does not include PlannedProces.   Challenges with digital twins, and physical.   Some adaption in own namespace may be required.   PROV is simple, and recipe for activity is a "Plan".   Will need to be customized, and not able to mix with something else.   Some conflicts in definitions with other ontologies? 
- Alexios pointed out https://www.w3.org/TR/prov-o/#Plan, has plans.
- Currently challenging to create a trail of sequences - possible with build, but defining everything with timeline, needs improvement.   Processes are needed for use cases now (Hardware, Safety, etc.)
- In PROV - an activity can also be an agent.   Signing process is an example.
- Prior solution was based on PROV-O for Agent - https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0.1/model/Core/Classes/SoftwareAgent/
- Do we copy over Agent, Entity, Activity?  
- How much should we consider Etity, collection, bundle, plan. 
- See videos from Luc M to understand more detail.
- Alfred volunteering to do a presentation on Functional Design Assurance initiative.   Which also applies to hardware issue. 

### Translation

- Model Repo - Japanese making progress now.
  Some questions on how to Spec part is still open, need small examples, to do experiment with.
- Need someone to pick up MkDocs work

### Future meeting agendas

- 28 Jan - Follow up on Hardware Profile (host: Gary) Quantity & Unit, align up with AI (Art)
- 4 Feb - TEA Protocol meeting (Kate out) (host: Gary)
- 11 Feb - SHACL Validations (include where to add) and/or Translations  (Alexios, Ilan, Sean)
- 18 Feb - Functional Design Assurance (Steven & Alfred)
