# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2025-02-11

## Attendees

- Alexios Zavras
- Alfred Strauch
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Bob Martin
- Dick Brooks
- Ilan Schifter
- Joshua Watt
- Karsten Klein
- Kate Stewart
- Maximillian Huber
- Peter Monks
- Sean Barnum
- Steven Carbno

## Agenda

- Schedule Software as a Service review for March 4
- FOSDEM recap (SBOM devroom, Fringe, ..)
- Multilingual.
- ISO submission status
- customIdToUri "bug" for 3.1
- SHACL Validations (include where to add)

## Notes

### SAS Review
- Added geographic properties
- Want to have operations folk participating;  possible overlap of properties during review. 
- ** Diagramming still needed for model changes.
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/tree/service-profile
- ** Country codes - described ISO 3166-1 alpha-3;   possibly REGX for 3 upper case.
- ** For the reference in the text, refer to the ISO standard, then to WIKIpedia link which has better content.
- Range of service provider to be service provide.
- Henk points out https://ftp.iana.org/tz/tzdb-2016g/iso3166.tab as a set of 2 letter code.
- Sean points to https://sigpwned.com/2024/11/11/regex-for-iso-3166-1-country-codes/

### ISO Submission
- Paperwork in OMG after final go ahead.
- SPDX Website, pending on multilingual updates.
  
### Multilingual
 - Wasn't able to meet at FOSDEM
 - Still work in prorgress - but haven't figured out publishing mechanisms at this point. 
 - Spec has each language in its own directory.
 - Generated web site still needs to be refined.
 - Art is in discussion with Jeff Liquica; using MkDocs to generate website. 
 - Need to get mkdocs working, then restructure the directory repo (adding en, and other directories)
 - Any of the remotes with expertise on MkDocs? Ping Art first. 
 
### FOSDEM
- Devroom full day on Sunday - https://fosdem.org/2025/schedule/track/sbom/ -   100 seat room.   Had to turn people away during parts of the day. 
- Variety of talks - had some open discussion.
- All taks have been recorded, and appearing in FOSDEM website.  
- Slides have been posted. 
- Compliance Tooling Fringe Event
  - New tools & User Perspective.
  - Daniel from CURL was participating on issues.
- Microsoft move to SPDX 3.0

### SHACL Validations
- Ilan has opened PRs in the repo at this point.
- Has small python script that loads ontology.  
- How should it be integrated/managed?  Possibly set this up as separate meeting.   Alexios agrees this may appropriate as a separate meeting.   Esp. for sequences.
- Where do we want to have this in the end?   Should it be part of spec?
- Sean advocates "What" constraint should be in the spec.   How it gets implemented can be separated out. 
- Henk asks if manually or through tool?   Ilan did it manually.
- Participants:  Alexios, Sean, Ilan, Karsten - start this as "ad-hoc",  high level decisions need to be met.
- Are there patterns in the validation that can be included into markdown files?  SHACL code section in file that is not expected to be read.    Keep it like following "Pattern" (regex) ones is one suggestion from Art.
- Timeline for 3.1 needs to be set up.

## Announcements
- Dick flagged that The CISA Software Acquisition Guide supports both SPDX and CycloneDX SBOM options.
  https://cisa.gov/sag
- Google Summer of Code 2025 - we will submit in under the Linux Foundation one for SPDX.
  https://wiki.linuxfoundation.org/gsoc/google-summer-code-2025

## Future Meeting Agendas
- 18 Feb - Functional Design Assurance (Steven & Alfred)
- 25 Feb -  Timeline for SPDX 3.1;
- 4 March - SAS Profile? and Operational profile?
- 11 March - SHACL Update?  (Ilan)
