# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2026-01-13

## Attendees
- Alexios Zavras
- Alfred Strauch
- Bob Martin
- Dick Brooks
- Greg Shue
- Joshua Watt
- Karen Bennett
- Karsten Klein
- Kate Stewart
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Marcel Kurzmann
- Maximilian Huber
- Nicole Pappler
- Peter Monks
- Steven Carbno
- Ted Gauthier
- Victor Lu

## Agenda
1. Approval of last week's minutes
2. Announcements
3. Feedback on spdxId and NamespaceMap from golang implementation (Keith)
4. GSoC
   - Mentoring organization application period: 19 Jan to 3 Feb 2026  
     - https://opensource.googleblog.com/2025/12/shape-future-with-google-summer-of-code.html
   - If we decide to participate:
     - Mentor guide: https://google.github.io/gsocguides/mentor/
     - Add 2026 ideas in GSoC repo
     - Documenting 2025 projects: https://github.com/spdx/GSoC/pull/17
5. Website publication
   - Publish current support/3.0 branch to 3.0.2-dev website: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1320
6. Relationship
   - Add type of `to` of hasConcludedLicense and hasDeclaredLicense: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1174
7. Safety
   - Add FunctionalSafety profile: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1178

## Notes

### Minutes approval
- Minutes approved.

### Announcements
- FOSDEM SBOM Devroom published.
  - Kate, Alexios, Karen, Marc-Etienne, Max, Nicole planning to attend.
  - FOSDEM shoulder events on tooling may be of interest.
- SPDX 3.0 Specification is out for balloting in ISO, due April 2026.
- SPDX Python tools having a new release.
  - Question raised: when will they be able to handle SPDX 3.0?
- EU CRA is requesting SBOM and other feedback until January 23:
  - https://www.enisa.europa.eu/news/call-for-feedback-advancing-software-supply-chain-security-together

### SPDX 3.1-rc1 planning
- Infrastructure for SPDX 3.1: Alexios noted work still pending; do not block on content.
  - Plan to use current infrastructure to publish on web.
  - Current site: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.1-dev/ (publish the develop branch).
  - Plan is to tag a release on GitHub to be published on the website similar to SPDX 3.0-rc1.

#### Profile perspective
- AI & Data: 3 PRs bumped to a further branch (3.1-rc2 or 3.2 branch); otherwise good to go.
- Functional Safety: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1178
  - Once included, good.
- Hardware: good to go.
- Licensing:
  - Alexios looking for software component, but acceptable to move to -rc2.
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/969 (merged during the call).
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1174
- Supply Chain: good to go.
- Security: nothing ready for 3.1-rc1; aim for 3.1-rc2.
- Software: component work can be done in -rc2.
- Business Operations: double check with team by email.

#### Next steps and risks
- Nicole and Kate to review 1178 in detail.
  - Possible rebasing problem and conflicts with Supply Chain.
  - Nicole will try to fix.
  - Supply Chain and Safety may not have the same perspective.
  - Focus areas: relationship type conflicts and external identifier types.
- Additional content is generally fine; main challenge is removals.

### Website publication (3.0.2-dev)
- Publish current support/3.0 branch to 3.0.2-dev website: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1320
- Discussed on call:
  - 3.0.1 went to ISO.
  - 3.0-dev is WIP.
  - 3.0.2 will be frozen and include any ISO feedback.
- Art to update URL.

### GSoC
- Need to identify someone to lead; Alexios and Kate are out of bandwidth.
- Need to determine if Gary has bandwidth.
- Art willing to help mentor.
- Possible discussion with Peter.

### Feedback on spdxId and NamespaceMap (golang implementation)
- Need to clarify whether this in 3.0 is the same as 2.3.
- Examples should be updated.
- TODO (not -rc1 blocking): review
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1323
  - https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3.1-dev/document-creation-information/#65-spdx-document-namespace-field
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1326
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1325
- Greg reference: parameters for SPDX content.
- Need support for product line: bill of features.
  - Value of modelId varies per product; handling varies across products.
  - Future (3.2): need a way to represent this concept.
- Victor in W3C discussion: any requests to work on for alignment.

### Backlog
- Backlog document (see “Backlog” tab):
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y
