# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2026-01-27

## Attendees
* Alfred Strauch
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Bob Martin
* Dick Brooks
* Greg Shue
* Joshua Watt
* Karen Bennet
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Peter Monks
* Steven Carbno
* Ted Gauthier
* Victor Lu

## Agenda
* **Approval of last week's minutes:** Approved.
* **Announcements:** * Big thank you to Art; **SPDX 3.1-rc1** was released last Saturday.
    * [Tech Mailing List Announcement](https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-tech/message/6092)
    * [Project Website Announcement](https://spdx.dev/spdx-3-1-ontology-and-schema-available-for-review/)
* **GSoC Update:** SBOM Conformance Checker-related project (tool, test data, integration) â€“ Art & John Speed Meyers. [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/spdx/ntia-conformance-checker)
* **3.1-rc2 Topics:** Component interaction with other profiles ([PR #1044](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1044)).
* **Release Readiness:** SPDX 3 is now an official [in-toto predicate](https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/predicates/spdx3.md).

---

## Notes

### License Metadata
* **Discussion:** Need for additional license list data elements to support model openness evaluation and tool implementation.
* **Relevant Issues:** [#1181](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1181), [#1184](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1184).
* **Action:** Target **March 3rd** for a dedicated tech call.
* **Participants:** Art, Peter, Gary, Alexios, Steve, Jilayne, Kate.

### GSoC
* Kate to introduce Art to Aveek & Til.
* SPDX to move under the LF umbrella.

### Component & Metadata Fragments
* **Naming:** "Component" is seen as overloaded in systems engineering. Suggestions include `SharedTraits` or `Shared`.
* **Relationship Aggregation:** Joshua Watt highlighted the need to avoid $N \times N$ relationship duplication (e.g., Kernel packages to CVEs). 
* **Compression:** Joshua notes the goal is to reduce SBOM size, but lossless general-purpose compression might be more effective than structural refactoring.
* **Bundles:** Max noted Bundles currently lack semantic grouping meaning; we need to re-examine Bundles as a "Shared Context."
* **Action Item:** **Joshua Watt** to summarize these discussion points into PR 1044.

### 3.1-rc2 & Roadmap
* **Property Naming:** Arthit created an issue regarding naming consistency for new properties.
* **Web Presence:** Bob noted the website needs to be updated so 3.1 is visible.
* **FOSDEM:** Karen's 3.1 slides will be shared with the group.
* **New Profiles:** Threats & Controls are targeted for rc2. Flagging HBOM considerations.
* **Operations:** Discussion on supporting regulatory requirements to minimize vendor lock-in and ease information sharing.

## Backlog
* See the full backlog [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y).
