  - Attendance: 16
  - Lead by Steve Winslow

## Presentation: William Bartholomew

  - Discussed efforts working with 3T-SBOM group to align approaches and
    modeling
  - Walked through key points of changes to base profile
      - Relationships being promoted to “object” level
      - Artifact; external references
      - Extensibility, potential for other authenticity measures than
        just hashes (e.g. public keys)
  - Briefly discussed other profiles

## Legal Team Report – Steve / Jilayne

  - 3.11 release update
      - originally scheduled for Oct. 31
      - most of 3.11 cycle was focused on SPDX 3.0 licensing profile
        discussions
      - shifted release to approx. Nov. 25
  - call for participants to review license submissions / provide
    comments on “yes/no, should this be added” out-of-band from biweekly
    calls

## Tech Team Report – Kate

  - Work proceeding on SPDX 3.0
  - Linking profile: focus on aligning with container-based ecosystems,
    work by Nisha and Santiago
  - Other profiles proceeding as well
  - Tooling: Online Tools recently updated

## Other matters

  - Comments from Aveek re: ways to provide better on-ramps into the
    SPDX community for newcomers
      - Availability of Gitter as a real-time chat option; possibly
        explore other options
      - May discuss on next month’s General meeting

## Additional Notes from KATE

Here are the notes I took, since Steve was kind enough to host.

Attendees: Steve Winslow, Kate Stewart, Mark baushke, Rishabh Bhatnagar,
Aveek, Jilayne Lovejoy, Emmanuel Tournier, William Bartholomew, Alexios
Zavras, Mike Dolan, Paul Madick, Mark Atwood, Michael Herzog, David
Wheeler

William went through and did a review of SPDX 3.0 Base Profile
highlighting the differences.

Artifacts - are promoting a specific External Reference (likely PURL) to
be used Document - Now has a set of profiles that

Complies with a profile - expect that mandatory are supported. If not
have profile - can use the field, but not expected to meet the full
requirements.

Next step is converting this into the written text. Move into the other
areas as well.

Now’s the time to chime in in SPDX 3.0 specification if you have

Mark Baushke - problem on how to express the overall license. Userland
and Kernel based licensing in one package. Use Case interested in - Fast
packet forwarding - kernel module with GPL2, and userland. …. show how
to represent.

Legal Team - 3.11 release - pushing it out until Nov 25th, today one
more meeting. 11 new license requests have been submitted in September.
Help requested. : Commenting on licenses in github comments. XML files.

Web site

`           Refresh is ongoing.   Feedback and suggestions are welcome.   `  
`           Mission discussed last month has now been incorporated`

Technical Team - SPDX 3.0 in progress Online tools - yaml conversions
coming.

Aveek - Observing SPDX - Community building and bringing new people into
group. Group chat/slack? — use gitter, start discussing there as well.
Need to improve our launching platform. Slack group? - with mentoring
and advocates how to start off.

Aveek has volunteered to provide his findings to help us grow the
community next month as a guest speaker.

Possibly Steve, Jilayne & Paul can provide overview of SPDX 3.0 License
Profile in January?
