## Attendees

  - Esteban Rockett (Motorola)
  - Kate Stewart (Canonical)
  - Kim Weins (OpenLogic)
  - Phil Odence (Blackduck)
  - Amanda Brock (Canonical)
  - Andrew Sinclair (Canonical)
  - Karen Copenhaver (Linux Foundation)
  - Scott Peterson (HP)
  - Tom Incorvia (Microfocus)
  - Allison Randal (Python Software Foundation, The Perl Foundation,
    Canonical)
  - Mansour Ghomeshi (Motorola)
  - McCoy Smith (Intel)
  - Soeren Rabenstein (Asus)
  - Paul Madick (HP)
  - Jilayne Lovejoy (OpenLogic) Andy Wilson (Intel)
  - Terry Ilardi (IBM)
  - Michael Herzog (NexB)

## Minutes

  - Introductions - Since this was the kick-off meeting for the SPDX
    Legal Workstream, all attendees introduced themselves in a
    descriptive manner. Many attendees were physically in a conference
    room at Choate et al. (Boston), others joined via the
    tele-conference.
  - Bridge from Licensing Interim Workstream - Rockett and Kim provided
    an explanation of how this Legal Workstream was bridging over the
    work done in the prior Licensing Subteam, with thanks to Kate,
    Jilayne and Tom.
  - Reviewed minutes/issues from last Licensing Subteam Meeting - The
    last Licensing Subteam Meeting Minutes were actively explained by
    Kate, Kim and Rockett. Attendees were also encouraged to review and
    ask any further questions. Lead by Jilayne, the Licensing Subteam's
    treatment of zlib/libpng was discussed, and generally agreed to be
    managed as two separate licenses. Kim explained which GPL v3
    exceptions were currently listed as separate entries on the SPDX
    standard license list.
  - Discussed Current License List & Review - Attendees were asked to
    review the current SPDX Standard License List. There was some
    confusion over the URL for the active list. Rockett to work with
    Phil and Martin to resolve.
  - Discussed License Template Creation - Volunteers were requested to
    work on the License Template for the SPDX Standard Licenses.
    Sorenson, Jilayne and Rockett volunteered to lead the effort.
  - Discussed Temporary Freeze of License List (30 days) - A temporary
    freeze, e.g. 30 days, of the current working SPDX License List was
    proposed in order to allow for some cleanup, as well as license
    template creation (please see above).
  - Creation of a Process/Method to Add Licenses - An interactive
    discussion on how to add licenses occurred. Kim, Paul and Soeren
    volunteered to lead the effort in such a proposed method. This
    discussion then expanded into "if use of the standard license
    acronyms would be required" to be used for SPDX.
  - Next meeting was announced to be after the holidays in 2011; at the
    normal bi-weekly time slot.

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
