## Attendees

  - Kim Weins (OpenLogic)
  - Jilayne Lovejoy (OpenLogic)
  - Esteban Rockett (Motorola)
  - Kate Stewart (Canonical)
  - Tom Incorvia (Microfocus)

## Notes

We spent the whole call discussing how to handle Python licensing. Tom
iIncorvia did a bunch of research on the Python license. Essentially it
was owned by 3 different groups prior to the Python Software Foundation
- CWI, CNRI, BeOpen. This happened as the primary author, Guido van
Rossum, moved from company to company.

As the owner changed, the license changed, so there are several licenses
that apply to different components of Python. In addition, there appear
to be tweaks to the license terms with each release, even when the owner
did not change.

On the call, we determined that we should separate the Python licenses
into separate licenses in the list. However, we also felt that more
research was required to see if different Python licenses might apply
simultaneously to a single version.

## Addendum

After the call, I did further research to determine that there are, in
fact, multiple licenses that can apply to any version of Python -- with
older code under older licenses and newer code under the PSF license.

From the PSF website <http://www.python.org/psf/summary/>

"(1) In the earlier days of Python, employee contracts and related law
ensured that the organizations that released Python under the various
licenses had the rights to the code that was added in each release. The
open source licenses used by those organizations granted all the
necessary rights to the world in general, which of course includes the
PSF. **The only significant right the PSF does not have to this code is
to re-license it. This is the reason for the continued existence of the
older licenses in the license stack.** Since some of the organizations
involved no longer exist, it is unlikely that the PSF could obtain
relicensing rights in the future. Thus, the older licenses cannot be
removed from the license stack."

We will revisit this topic at the next meeting.

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
