## Attendees

  - Esteban Rockett (Motorola)
  - Kate Stewart (Canonical)
  - Kim Weins (OpenLogic)
  - Peter Williams (OpenLogic)
  - Mark Gisi (WindRiver)
  - Paul Madick (HP)
  - Scott Peterson (HP)
  - Jilayne Lovejoy (OpenLogic)
  - Tom Incorvia (Microfocus)
  - Andy Wilson (Intel)
  - Scott Lamons (OpenLogic)
  - Michael Herzog (NexB)
  - Karen Copenhaver (Linux Foundation)

## Minutes

  - A. Review of December Meeting Minutes - Team was asked to review
    December meeting minutes by 20-Jan-2011; for approval at meeting
    scheduled for 26-Jan-2011.
  - B. "Create Process/Method to Add Licenses" - Team agreed with moving
    the process/method to created/add new licenses (to the standard SPDX
    license list) to the SPDX Business Workstream.
  - C. SPDX Metadata License - Team agreed to pick a default license for
    the SPDX metadata, such default license to be agreed by this team
    and Linux Foundation Member counsel. BSD-based/MIT-like was the
    general consensus. Whether additional proprietary licenses would be
    allowed was tabled, pending the decision on the default metadata
    license. Rockett and Karen Copenhaver to lead.
  - D. Required use of Standard License Acronyms - Michael Herzog
    proposed that this requirement be limited to those publishing SPDX
    metadata. No objections from the team.
  - E. Issue raised from Tech Workstream on the need for a Legal Policy
    on "SPDX Not Validating License Recited" - This topic lead into a
    detailed discussion of "objective" verse "subjective" metadata. A
    second meeting was scheduled for 14-Jan-2011 to conclude this issue.
    See minutes from 14-Jan-2011 meeting.

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
