## Attendees

  - Esteban Rockett, Motorola
  - Kim Weins, OpenLogic
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Bill Schneiller, Black Duck
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Terry Ilardi, IBM
  - Adam Cohn, Cisco
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Michael Herzog, NexB
  - Gary O'Neal, Source Auditor
  - Jordan Hatcher, ARM
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic

## Agenda

  - focus on review and comments to the below draft SPDX Trademark
    license
  - further discussion re: confidentiality of spec as between users
  - Rockett circulated the proposed trademark license text prior to
    meeting, copied here:

## SPDX Trademark License

The SPDX and Software Package Data Exchange trademarks (collectively,
SPDX Trademarks) are owned by the SPDX Workgroup, which is sponsored by
the Linux Foundation (LF). LF holds the SPDX Trademarks in trust for the
SPDX Workgroup. The SPDX Workgroup hereby grants you a royalty-free,
non-exclusive, non-assignable, non-transferable, non-sublicensable,
world-wide license to use its SPDX Trademarks in connection with files
containing software licensing information if you:

(i) solely use the SPDX Trademarks in connection with files containing
all of the SPDX Mandatory Fields as defined in the applicable version of
the SPDX specification;

(ii) solely uses the SPDX Trademarks in connection with files that do
not utilize additional fields, unless such additional fields are
"Optional Fields‚" as defined in the applicable version of the SPDX
specification;

(iii) recite the applicable SPDX Specification version in, or with, your
use of any of the SPDX Trademarks; and

(iv) fully comply with (a) the SDPX Specification and (b) the license
(Creative Commons Attribution License 3.0 (also known as CC-BY-3.0))
under which the SPDX Specification is offered in its entirety.

This SPDX TM License shall automatically be revoked in perpetuity if you
fail to comply with any of the above requirements. A revoked SPDX TM
License may only be restored by (i) you submitting a petition for
restoration to the Legal Team of the SPDX Workgroup (Legal Team), (ii)
attending any required meetings for inquiry in the circumstances, and
(iii) a consensus of the Legal Team to restore your license.

## Minutes

  - Rockett went through the trademark license and gave an overview of
    the what/why of each part
  - CC-BY-3.0 version issue: (raised via email prior to meeting) CC
    licenses currently have ports to various jurisdictions, so you need
    to identify the jurisdiction type. I'm not sure what we are using,
    but if it is the Unported (raw) version, then suggest we slightly
    tweak it and change the reference to "Creative Commons Attribution
    3.0 Unported License"
      - DECISION: add "Unported" to designation in spec;
  - Discussion about meaning of compliance with CC license: current
    license only requires attribution (but still could sell it)
  - Discussion on whether we want to allow selling it - okay b/c might
    be case where spec is built into a tool or larger product
  - Clarification: CC applies to spec itself, whereas PddL covers the
    SPDX file itself
      - **DECISION**: Should add to (iv)(a) - the SPDX Specification
        authored/published by the SPDX Working Group and provide url
        location of spec
      - Also need to specify where and how to do the attribution (CC
        license assumes author will designate this) and include this
        info in the spec (and trademark license?)
  - Give a couple versions of this for full compliance versus
    based-on-SPDX scenario?
      - **DECISION**: Rockett to make a cut on this and circulate to
        Legal and Technical and then let people comment with goal of
        closing on this during General Call tomorrow
      - Section (ii) issue: (raised via email prior to meeting) This
        requirement provides no value and does significant harm to
        future prospects of SPDX. It will stifle innovation by making
        experimentation with new fields and types of data illegal. It
        also will drive people out of the SPDX community if they have
        business requirements that not meet by the current version of
        SPDX. In both of these cases we should actively encourage people
        to extend SPDX to their needs. We can use information resulting
        from such experimentation to guide improvements in future
        versions. Some might be concerned that allowing data other than
        that in the specification will cause technical problems with
        interoperability butthis is not a problem. RDF is designed to
        support safe and easy extension so SPDX data encoded in RDF will
        be readable by any compliant SPDX consumer regardless of any
        extra "fields" that are included. The syntax of tag format does
        not allow any ad hoc extensions at all so consumers of the tag
        format are also safe.
  - Discussion/concerns/comments raised:
      - most standard groups allow people to add other fields
      - what about tag values and interoperability ‚Üí nothing
        enforceable and could have potential diversions
      - some of extensions that could be added could veer into "making
        an interpretation" that we have tried to avoid and these fields
        could be added without review
      - but anyone who added a field, doesn't mean field gets added to
        the spec
      - if add field, then person getting SPDX file may assume its part
        of spec
      - Currently, users can put other ideas into various existing free
        form comment fields
  - Want to allow extensibility over time - how to do this? May be that
    optional fields will grow faster than mandatory fields. Want ability
    to have user defined fields‚ how to do this requires later more in
    depth discussion‚
  - the boundaries of change are spec issues, not trademark license
    discussion - trademark license need only be flexible enough to refer
    to spec and quality guidelines therein, while balancing trademark
    law concern with quality control
  - Fields in spec now are "mandatory" or "optional" - can be
    interpreted different ways, but by being specific, could be
    limiting, if add other language to allow room for adding other
    fields in future with less confusion
      - **DECISION**: put an "out" in clause (ii) - "as defined in
        applicable version of the SPDX‚ or as extensions as defined‚"
  - Rockett to draft something and table larger discussion of whether,
    and how to change spec to allow additional fields (what, if
    anything, and how much and how you can modify it)
  - Interplay of confidentiality and SPDX: idea of labelling SPDX file
    as confidential raises concern that that labelling would only impact
    the parties to the NDA and downstream recipients would still see the
    label and shouldn't have to be concerned under PddL. Downstream
    recipients may treat it as confidential or not.
  - No confidentiality field at all right now (was previously and just
    decided to drop this field) - no place to enter this in section 2,
    SPDX Information. Parties would use a separate confidentiality
    agreement to achieve this goal, i.e. outside wrapper, you come up
    with this on your own, not part of SPDX spec or file itself
  - How do we allow parties to have confidentiality, but non-parties not
    see the label?
      - **DECISION**: Defer to technical team to propose solutions for
        next version of spec?

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
