## Attendees

  - Esteban Rockett, Motorola Mobility
  - Kim Wiens, OpenLogic
  - Michael Herzog, NexB
  - Phil Odence, BlackDuck
  - Mark Gisi, WindRiver
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Nichlos (protocode)
  - Paul Maddock, HP
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Karen Copenhaver, Choate
  - Adam Cohen, Cisco

## Agenda

1.  Linux Summit Vancouver Summary was presented.
2.  SPDX Official launch went well.
3.  BOF revealed issues with PDDL acceptance, because it is not another
    license for project to have to be concerned about. Alternative
    suggestions were entertained. Karen agreed to draft a modified MIT
    license as a potential alternative, and circulate before next
    meeting.

## Minutes

Update on how LinuxCon went - announcement on Wednesday; session on
Thursday and birds of a feather on Thursday evening

  - Announcement and press release on Wednesday with quotes, etc.
  - Informational session on Thursday went well, no major difficult
    questions
  - hot issues: how will we provide metadata and licensing of metadata
    (PddL) at BOF
      - issue described as how metadata can be used while keeping it in
        public domain
      - concerns stem from European database law
      - should we be concerned with this?
      - Still need ability to be confidentiality, while preparing and
        potentially
      - At BOF: core team and active members, but also some peripheral
        from community/developer side - got negative reaction to idea of
        PddL
          - from perspective of community developer - new license I'm
            not familiar with, don't care about licensing, rebeling as a
            result
          - feedback from professor, and importance of attribution and
            PddL doesn't allow attribution
      - original thing we were trying to avoid, was database law to
        claim rights in an SPDX file and no one else can use it. Avoid
        this by using trademark license to enforce use of PddL. But
        nefarious actors can still circumvent
          - is this really a concern?
  - Is this really a risk overall, i.e. do we need a license at all
      - Confidentiality is bigger issue
      - Reality that next year at LinuxCon, issue will probably be open
        data; we have opportunity to start clean pipeline and data can
        be re-used any way you want
          - Idea is if I get an SPDX that this license applies to the
            data
          - If want to drive this up to project level, they don't
            understand the data laws and will ask why isn't this the CC
            license
              - Little bit of a battle b/w CC license, but CC has not
                issued a license yet that deals with the data issue
          - If we only had PddL as default, could result in SPDX files
            under other licenses and more confusion
          - What if we used one of the public domain CC licenses, how
            concerned are we with the EU data laws
          - Also still need a disclaimer - example, MIT license -
            familiar and leaves open to adopt something later; easier to
            get buy-in
              - Have to use "to the extent that there are any rights‚"
                b/c don't want to acknowledge that there are any rights
              - Simple approach of using (modified) MIT, step in right
                direction
                  - Have to accept reality that software - data, not
                    same thing
              - Karen to write something up and circulate
              - Need to make decision, do it immediately, and stick with
                it? (or at least try)
                  - Only way to get absoluteness is to prevent use of
                    SPDX trademark at all unless used in line with
                    trademark license
                  - As long as we allow others to use specification in
                    non-compliant form, increases matter of percentage,
                    but never 100 %
                  - Could spin out v1.1 release quickly and have this be
                    only change
                  - Can we also tackle confidentiality issue at same
                    time?
          - Karen to circulate proposal - some things to
            consider/include:
              - Spec under CC-BY 3.0 clarification
              - Exempt any copyrightable materials included in SPDX
                (i.e. license text) ; can use field names to exempt
              - This is really a disclaimer
              - No mention of comments copyright-able-ness?
              - Is this consistent with previous PddL approach around
                confidentiality
              - Seems like this MIT-style would make this even easier?
              - Technical team will be asked to look at pending proposal
                for proposed confidentiality field (as discussed
                earlier) and hope to wrap that up together
  - Legal call next week (instead of two weeks) to review what Karen
    circulates and try to wrap this up

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
