## Attendees

  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Michael Herzog, NexB
  - Mark Gisi, Windriver
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic

(started late due to miscommunication b/w Rockett and Jilayne re: who
was leading call, apologies to anyone who joined and then dropped off
from waiting)

## new data license - CC-Zero + preamble

Mark has a document explaining the rationale for the data license
discussions of late last year, which he will update now that we have
decided. This will be posted in the legal section of the website, once
the new site is up.

*ACTION ITEM*: Jilayne to get latest version (with any minor edits) to
Mark; to Kim; and post on new site

*ACTION ITEM*: Mark to update/complete rationale document and post on
new site

## Templatizing Licenses

Jilayne previously sent latest version of guidelines. feedback on that:

  - guidelines state to ignore **bullets v. numbering v. lettering for
    sub-parts of license**; however, this is not going to work b/c some
    licenses (e.g. Eclipse) have references to the numbered sections in
    other parts of the license
      - what about BSD? sometimes uses bullets, sometimes numbers for
        clauses, wouldn't want to consider such a "different" license
        for this reason only. Can we make this part of template for just
        BSD example (because need to templatize BSD anyway?) are there
        other license where this would be a factor? Technological/tool
        considerations here?
  - British v. American spelling list - Tom pointed out that in some
    cases it's not clear which is which nor does it matter as concern is
    equivalency (not etymology) → change list to equivalents

*ACTION ITEM*: Jilayne to update templatizing guidelines as per above
notes/observations

*ACTION ITEM*: GROUP to review and further discussion needed at next
meeting

## License List

no progress, but next version in the works still; Tom suggested a review
of shortnames and licenses as long as we are in process

*ACTION ITEM*: Jilayne to circle back with OSI re: outstanding issues
and get list uploaded

## Other

### License approval process

  - we need to get up to date on this. Where is the latest iteration?
    Needs to be vetted, finalized, and posted on website
  - Jilayne spoke to Kim; latest iteration is thought to be somewhere in
    business team minutes, so she will look for and to be discussed at
    next general and business team meetings;

### License v. license notice

discussed issue when generating SPDX file of identifying a license via a
license notice versus the license itself. That is, we do not want
license notices to be added to the license list as a license - how to
decide when a notice means XYZ license where XYZ license does not have a
standard notice/header

  - do we need guidelines around this?
  - do we need a separate field in the spec for this information?
  - how do you handle the structure of this in the data? how do you
    enable reconstruction of what was in file? is this non-standard
    notice simply put in the comments section?
  - further, what about notices of a disjunctive license scenario?

*ACTION ITEM*: Michael to come up with a couple examples for further
discussion

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
