## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Tom Incorvia, Micro Focus
  - Paul Madick, HP
  - Jason Buttura, Cisco

no progress on license list additions because Jilayne has been busy.
With only a handful of us, decided to go through the few remaning minor
"issues" on current version of License List

  - there was a question about the two different links for the EUPL (one
    to the page with the links for all 22 different language
    translations and a direct link to the English version. However, we
    only have the English version as part of teh License List - this led
    to discussion (and more questions than answers...)
  - should we have an official language for the License List? for SPDX?
  - should we include licenses on list that are in languages other than
    English? We are not consistent on this, e.g. French versions of
    Cecil are on List, but only English version of EUPL
  - we are only talking about "official" translations, not any
    translation of any license by people other than author or steward
  - why not have any "official" translation on the list? - would it make
    sense to have supplemental non-English part of list
  - is this a good use of our resources at this point, i.e. trying to
    add other language licenses and then the ramifications that could
    have on matching (would want to talk to tool people/tech team)
  - decided to bring issue of "official language" up on general call,
    leave License LIst entries as is for now and come back to this
  - went over a couple niggly naming and notes issues on license list;
    changes to be included in v1.17. nothing earth shattering here and
    changes will be documented/noted in new version
  - short discussion about exceptions and trying to get a handle on this
    - next up.

hope to have more people for next call... items on agenda will be to
look at outstanding "to-dos" and prioritize, probably tackle GPL
exceptions as one of next items

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
