## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Tom Incorvia, Micro Focus

## FSF license list additions

there are a few outstanding research items. Outstanding research items
listed here:

1.  A) Condor Public License v1.1 – already decided to add licence, but
    research re: are there other versions for this license? I could not
    find any based on an internet search. This license looks to be based
    on Apache 1.1 so that probably explains the numbering → decided to
    use short identifier: Condor-1.1 for reasoning that this is what we
    have done with other similar licenses that use a version number
    (even though there is only one version)
2.  B) Jabber Open Source License v1.0 - already decided to add licence,
    but research re: are there other versions for this license? My
    research did not turn up any other version. → decided to use short
    identifier: Jabber-1.0 (same reasoning as with Condor)
3.  C) SGI Free Software License B v2.0 – already decided to add
    licence, but research re: are there other versions for this license?
    Yes, there is a v1.0, v1.1, and v2.0 – all listed here:
    <http://oss.sgi.com/projects/FreeB/> → decided to add all versions.
    will use short identifiers as follows: SGI-B-2.0; SGI-B-1.1;
    SGI-B-1.0
4.  D) Unicode LIcense Agreement for Data Files and Software – are there
    other versions or other Unicode licenses? It does not appear so,
    based on the info on this page:
    <http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html> ... → realized that Fedora
    has a different Unicode license (for Character Database, Fedora uses
    short identifier:
    [1](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Licensing:UCD?rd=Licensing/UCD%7CUDC))
    than the Unicode license above from the FSF list. more research
    needed to see if there are others, so can appropriately name, etc.
5.  E) Zend Engine License v2.0 – are there other versions of this
    license? See attached document below for summary of research and
    items to discuss → suggestion to add Zend Engine License 2.0 and use
    ZendEngine-2.0 as short identifier, but not enough people on call to
    decide - will discuss further on next call

Due to such a small turnout, we stopped there, as remaining items seemed
to necessitate more input/people.

Decided to work on release of v1.17 of license list with additional FSF
licenses in next couple weeks. Any outstanding items not decided by then
will be incorporated into the release after that. → Jilayne to work on
getting new licenses added and v1.17 release - more to come on that...

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
