## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Ibrahim Haddad, Linux Foundation
  - Tom Incorvia, Micro Focus
  - Michael Herzog, NexB
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Jason Buttara, Cisco
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Scott Lamons, HP

## Update from LinuxCon last week

  - meeting time snafu on Tuesday meant no one (other than the usual
    suspects) showed up - unfortunate
  - Ed Warnicke introduced his watermarking proposal for adding
    copyright and license info into source files in a way that won't get
    stripped after compiling - more on this via the Tech Team
  - updates on website - got some good progress done on content, but
    still more work to be done - continue to work on that. if you see
    other issues, let Jack know
  - panel discussion - maybe 20-25 people by the end (keynote went late,
    so we had a small crew to start); good questions and discussion.
    mostly focused on what's new in v1.1

## Continue going through FSF license list

  - got through list, now need to do research - new spreadsheet below
    with assignments
  - Jack to check Debian list to compare for short identifiers (if
    different than what we came up with, note so we can decide how to
    proceed
  - various "more research needed" on individual licenses to be covered
    by Mark, Jilayne, Tom, Jason, and Michael
  - need to add a page on Legal Team website about other license lists
    and how we have coordinated, if at all - Jilayne to do first draft
    and circulate

NEW spreadsheet uploaded with today's notes - assignments noted in last
column (except Jack's)

NOTE: for "further research needed" assignments (Mark, Jilayne, Tom,
Jason, and Michael) please send an email to the legal group re: your
findings or upload a separate document to this page

For Jack's Debian task - please add notes in the last column and
re-upload spreadsheet or send to Jilayne before 9/19 meeting

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
