## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Michael Herzog, NexB
  - Mark Gisi, WindRiver
  - Paul Madick, HP
  - Jason, Cisco
  - Tom Incorvia, Micro Focus

## SPDX total vision

review Adam's proposed text to discuss on next call - done on Business
Team call last week - any need to further discuss here, or leave to that
next call?

→ did not discuss, leaving it to business calls (and general group) at
this point

## Legal Group vision/description

draft vision/goals statement for legal group and discuss

PAUL's proposed text:

*"The SPDX Legal Team supports the SPDX working groups by providing
recommendations to the SPDX working groups regarding licensing issues
for the specification itself; providing input that will result in
increased legal certainty of the licensing attributes of open source
projects; maintain the SPDX License List; and to promote the SPDX
specification to the legal community at-large."*

  - "increased legal certainty of the licensing attributes of open
    source projects" - what is this trying to say? Seems to - when
    attorneys using this info to license a project in a certain way,
    these are the kind of things lawyers will be looking at to determine
    the license
      - "provide certainty as to what licenses are for identification
        purposes"
      - "increased certainty of the licensing origins of open source
        projects"
      - "increased certainty about how open source projects license
        their project"
      - "increased certainty of the licensing of open source projects"
      - "increased certainty as to being able to identify the licensing
        info for open source projects"
      - how about just delete the phrase altogether? - Got inward
        looking, concrete (License List) and outward looking - what else
        is there?
      - Going forward: re-send with revisions and meeting notes; send to
        general group and then vet at next legal call

REVISED VERSION:

***"The SPDX Legal Team supports the SPDX working groups by providing
recommendations to the SPDX working groups regarding licensing issues
for the specification itself; providing input that will result in
increased legal certainty of the licensing attributes of open source
projects; maintain the SPDX License List; and to promote the SPDX
specification to the legal community at-large."***

  - Other tangent dicussion to this:
      - how to identify the license for an open source project - ex.
        Within the file versus whether there's a copying file on top of
        the directory → license in the file is more determinate than the
        license in the directory o notion of license at package level
        and at file level - SPDX producer takes liberties to determine
        this o but this isn't what the legal is doing, is it? Should we?
        Should the legal group come up with a group of guidelines and
        provide some influence on that?
  - → add to to-do list for discussion at later date

## SPDX License List description

draft vision/goals statement for license list and discuss

JILAYNE's proposed text:

*"The SPDX License List is a list of commonly found open source software
licenses for the purposes of being able to easily and efficiently
identify such licenses in an SPDX document. The SPDX License List
includes a standardized short identifier and full name for each license,
as well as other basic information. By providing a short identifier,
SPDX creators (as well as others beyond SPDX) can efficiently refer to a
license without having to redundantly reproduce the full license. The
SPDX website (spdx.org) maintains the full text of each license on the
SPDX License List. In keeping with the overall goal of the SPDX project,
no interpretation of the licenses has been made and the SPDX Licenses
List endeavors to only provide a factual list of licenses and short
identifiers that can be consistently relied upon by users of the list."*

  - add "vetted license text" to second sentence
  - add something about canonical reference, i.e. consistent and
    reliable maintained url for each license
  - remove last sentence as it's more of a counterpoint - good info to
    have, but probably belongs more in the FAQ section; can't cover
    every scenario in statement, better to keep it a statement of what
    it is (not what it isn't)
  - also probably don't need spdx.org website sentence
  - Going forward: re-send with revisions and meeting notes; send to
    general group and then vet at next legal call

REVISED VERSION:

***"The SPDX License List is a list of commonly found open source
software licenses for the purposes of being able to easily and
efficiently identify such licenses in an SPDX document. The SPDX License
List includes a standardized short identifier, full name for each
license, vetted license text, other basic information, and a canonical
permanent URL. By providing a short identifier, users can efficiently
refer to a license without having to redundantly reproduce the full
license."***

## Review current to-do list

Jilayne updated last night, see
[Legal\_Team/Priorities](Legal_Team/Priorities "wikilink") - anything
missing? prioritization?

  - license list to-do's - some stuff in progress; will need to deal
    with "issues" on their, but probably easier to do that once v1.16 is
    uploaded (goal to have done by next call..??)
  - Website updates and refresh - started listing areas that need work
    on current site, other things?
      - should we have something on website re: how we are dealing with
        other license lists and efforts involved around that? or on
        website FAQ as we deal with those along the way
      - refresh/tracking over to new pages - need update from MARK as to
        where we are on that and what needs to be done
  - Coordinating with other license lists
      - FSF list needs someone else to go through, may not necessarily
        add all the licenses they have on list (why licenses are on
        their list may be different reasons - i.e. for compatibility -
        not commonly used); come up with list of what we don't have
        versus what they have and then decide as group as to what to add
        -
          - PAUL (Jilayne to send him work to date on that)
      - Fedora list - Jilayne has to do to look into that more and
        follow up
      - Gentoo and Debian - will need others to take lead on these

## TO-DO'S and NEXT CALL 5/30

1.  Send revised Legal Work Group mission statement to group - JILAYNE
    (Review, finalize, and post next call - ALL)
2.  Send revised SPDX License List descriptive statement to group for
    review - JILAYNE (Review, finalize, and post next call - ALL)
3.  FSF License list - needs to finish going through and make list of
    license on FSF list, but not on SPDX list and decide on whether to
    add to SPDX list - PAUL (Jilayne started going through, will send
    Paul info)
4.  update to-do list as per discussions on this call - JILAYNE

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
