## Attendees

  - Paul Madick,
  - Mark Gisi, WindRiver
  - Peter Williams, OpenLogic
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Esteban Rockett, Motorola
  - Tom Incorvia, MicroFocus
  - Michael Herzog, NexB
  - Kate Stewart, Canonical

## License List Match Guidelines - pickup at \#7 Copyright Notice guideline

see
[Legal\_Team/License\_List/License\_Matching\_Guidelines](Legal_Team/License_List/License_Matching_Guidelines "wikilink")
for updated guidelines. No more Word document.

  - is the copyright notice "part" of the license?
      - yes in the case of BSD and MIT, i.e. is BSD 3-clause shows up
        multiple times with different copyright notices, we want it to
        match to BSD 3-clause
          - in this case, copytihgt notice not part of license in terms
            of matching
          - remove copyright notice from license text field in our
            license list and move it??
      - no in the case of Apache or GPL where there is a copyright
        notice for the license itself?
      - where someone leaves the \<copyright holder\> insertable text in
        the license - does that make it a "different" notice
      - if there is no copyright notice where there usually is one, is
        that a match?
  - can we simply say ignore copyright notice, include example,
      - don't take out copyright notices in license text on license list
      - or different rules for different license? - hard for
        implementation
      - if a license has its own copyright notice (i.e. Apache 2.0) and
        its ignored would this be bad?
  - → guideline for copyright notice, ignore, but then question is
    whether we then need to go through the entire license list and
    delineate where that begins and ends

<!-- end list -->

  - notice issue - the notice is not a license, in case of BSD, license
    is contained in the notice, but whereas GPL notice may be different
    forms and also may indicate "or later" or not - but still same GPL
    license (to discuss more in depth later)
  - does spec differentiate b/w notice and copyright holder well enough?
    may need to be more specific about how we discuss copyright holders
    in spec
      - what about when there are different copyright holders for
        different licenses within a file
  - → these issues to be further discussed at next meeting (items \#8
    and \#9 on license list match guidelines page)

## License List format issue

on last business call the issue of several license text being too long
for the character limit in Excel then resulting in that license text
missing in the html pages was discussed and how to remedy this so that
all info was in one place. Need to have a downloadable (spreadsheet)
format for people who want to download the license list for their own
purposes. Eventually we will transition to the html pages being the
"original" and have some kind of tool to generate a downloadable file,
but in the meantime, the spreadsheet is the "original" and the html
files are created from that.

Gary, Bill, and Jilayne had a call on Monday about various options.
proposal to move the license text into separate text files named
according to the short identifiers and then the spreadsheet would have a
link to the text file. spreadsheet and text files would be one
downloadable tar ball.

Update and discussion of this issues at legal meeting:

  - should the separate files be .txt files or the html files? if html
    files, kind of creates circular situation
  - to be discussed at general meeting tomorrow.

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
