## Attendees

  - Karen Copenhaver
  - Peter Williams
  - Tom Incorvia
  - Jason Buttara
  - Michael Herzog
  - ??

## Agenda

1\) New License Request for GNU Affero General Public License v3.0 or
later (AGPL-3.0+) from Tom Incorvia

Unanimous agreement – with thanks to Tom for identifying the problem.

2\) Discuss concept of SPDX Lite - pros and cons

  - No one wanted to create anything by the name SPDX Lite. Unanimously
    agreed that we should “kill” the use of that name.
  - We all agreed that there needed to be a way to start an SPDX for a
    large project and be able to crowd source or permit the SPDX to
    evolve toward completion.
  - We all agreed that there would be SPDX’s that were more or less
    incomplete early in the adoption cycle.
  - We all agreed that we need to provide tools/instructions that avoid
    the impression that anyone must individually type or cut and paste
    the same entry over and over into many different boxes in order to
    prepare something that is called an SPDX.
  - We all agree that the SPDX specification should be consistent with
    the full set of information that reasonable, knowledgeable lawyers
    would want to have access to in order to provide advice to their
    clients regarding the software that is represented in the SPDX. And
    we agree that “mandatory fields” is the best way to communicate what
    we consider to be the full set. “Optional” communicates that this
    additional level of information is only required by companies that
    are going overboard.
  - It is not clear to us that it will be possible to provide all of the
    information in the “mandatory fields” early in the adoption cycle
    and we do not want it to be an overly painful process to complete
    the fields for which there is no information. We think there is more
    discussion/education/explanation required with respect to what the
    default should be in a field that is not completed (blank and stays
    blank, blank but cannot stay blank, or some equivalent of “no
    assertion”). \[We know that there was a lot of thought given to the
    permissible entries in the various fields. We wonder whether we were
    focused on a future time where fully vetted SPDX’s for most projects
    are readily available and did not take into consideration this early
    adoption period where incomplete information will still be the
    norm.\]
  - We should also look at the definition/explanation provided for the
    word or phrase that is selected to communicate that there has been
    no work performed in a field. “No assertion” may mean that a lot of
    work has been done to determine that there is no information
    available or it might mean that there has been no work to determine
    whether the information is available. To focus work on the areas
    where no efforts to identify the correct information have been made,
    you need to be able to distinguish between the two.
  - We wondered whether there could eventually be a way to indicate that
    the code and SPDX came directly from the originating project and are
    unchanged.
  - We agree that we should take other steps to communicate to projects
    the importance of putting licensing information in every file.

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
