## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Zac White
  - Dennis Clark
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Mark Gisi

## Agenda

Lots going on\! What are the current projects/issues the Legal Team
needs to attend to?

**1) License Matching Guidelines**

  - edit matching guidelines, last round of edits sent after last call,
    no one responded --\> Jilayne to resend, PLEASE review and comment
    via email\!\!
  - As promised at LinuxCon, Jilayne is going through all of the
    licenses for Daniel to make the templates (also spotting for
    formatting issues, to improve appearance of license pages on
    spdx.org)

**2) Short Identifier Modifiers for "or later" licenses**

  - Mark going to put together some examples of license version choices
    to help inform how to best solve this and get discussion going on
    mailing lists
  - identified a need to have a special meeting on this topic alone so
    people can join specifically --\> Mark will coordinate this call

**3) GPL Exceptions**

  - we know SPDX License List is really weak here; have Tom Vidal doing
    research on this to collect various exceptions that are missing from
    list --\> Mark offered to assist here
  - idea of having exceptions as a modifier or operator to that is added
    onto the main license (dovetails with "or later" operator
    discussion)

**4) Fedora list**

  - email sent after last call with instructions and link to list for
    people to weigh in on this
  - as per discussion with Tom Calloway - if a license is on Fedora
    "good" list, then we should lean towards including it on SPDX
    License List. At that point, then we just need to look at short
    identifier used by Fedora uses and either: a) adopt, if there is no
    conflict with SPDX short identifiers or any other issues; or b) come
    up with a new short identifier and track differences between the
    Fedora list and SPDX LL so we have a short identifier comparison
    matrix
  - should be able to do mostly via mailing-list (but no movement) --\>
    Zac to drive this and ping people

**5) SPDX License List meta-tag discussion**

  - good activity on this on the mailing list, so will continue to use
    mailing list for that and have schedule joint call as needed; no
    specific feedback from Legal Team as a whole needed, people can
    participate individually, as it is a cross-team issue

**6) legal calls/dial-in**

  - Jilayne to check with LF to make sure we can using this number and
    then send a repeating invite
  - need someone to lead next legal call, as Jilayne is gone Oct 15 - 31

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
