## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Dennis Clark, NexB
  - Jason Buttura, Cisco
  - Tom Vidal
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Scott Lamons, HP

<!-- end list -->

1.  reviewed [draft / revised
    page](Legal_Team/License_List/Overview_and_License_Inclusion_Guidelines_\(draft_for_review\) "wikilink")
    for license overview. Went through be each section and made a few
    minor edits and changes. Decided to circulate to general mailing
    list for final vetting; mention on 4/4 general call, and then
    finalize (with discusssion as needed) on 4/11 Legal Team call.
2.  public domain page - have not gotten feedback except from Zak. Jason
    to review Zak's revisions and come up with final text for page
    ([Legal\_Team/Decisions/Dealing\_with\_Public\_Domain\_within\_SPDX\_Files\_(DRAFT)](Legal_Team/Decisions/Dealing_with_Public_Domain_within_SPDX_Files_\(DRAFT\) "wikilink"))
3.  discussed priority items to be done before Linux Collab Summit: rev
    another version of license list and prep for license matching
    guidline working session
4.  license list tracking: Kirsten had volunteered to create a new page
    with a table that lists licenses that have been requested to be
    added to the SPDX-LL, but has not had time to do this. At this
    point, with pending new site and improved wiki capabilities, Jack
    recommended waiting to do this after the Collab Summit. Jack also
    volunteered to take on this project is Kirsten is unable.

Next call, April 11th: finalize Overview page/discuss any feedback from
general list as needed; Status update on projects.

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
