## Attendees

  - Paul Madick
  - Dennis Clark
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Alan Tse
  - Phil Odence
  - Mark Gisi
  - Jilayne Lovejoy

## Agenda

**1) Explanation text for deprecated licenses** - made minor revisions
and talked through how various aspects of deprecated license info will
display on HTML pages:

  - This text will go above the table of deprecated licenses, then you
    can click on each license taking to the page. That page will have
    note at top, "this license has been deprecated" and then the Notes
    on Deprecation can be seen there.
  - Show "deprecated as of" on individual page for license definitely;
    show in table if there's room
  - can we also add a column in regular list that is "added as of" -
    (for tools, Phil's idea) but if tools are pulling from original,
    then doesn't matter if info is there. If the latter, then does
    format in spreadsheet need to be better optimized - Phil to
    follow-up on this issue/question with Gary

**2) Linux Collab Summit** - update from Jack We have Thursday and
Friday (may do tech team meetings for Wed afternoon). Phil put out call
for papers, we are in charge of our own track. Talks scheduled so far,
for Thursday:

  - Mark is submitting paper on pros and cons for 2.0 (real use case)
  - Phil to do SPDX 101
  - Kate and Gary - intro to 2.0 spec (with real life examples); Jack
    will have examples, probably focus on data model
  - Business team - host a panel, real world SPDX use
  - BoF - people bringing in what they are doing with SPDX
  - OpenChain - 1/2 day - Friday morning
  - don't schedule anything for Friday afternoon, as people trying to
    get to airport, etc.
  - One slot still open Thursday: Jilayne & Paul to do a talk on What's
    New for 2.0 for SPDX License List

**3) License Expression Syntax FAQs**

  - some edits
  - discussed where to add this page, link to it? Should this be an
    spdx.org page? Maybe add more links to Legal wiki landing page for
    info related to license list
