## Attendees

  - Sam Ellis
  - Alan Tse
  - Dennis Clark
  - Paul Madick
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Mark Gisi
  - Tom Vidal

## Agenda

**1) New license requests,** see:
<https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/11AKxLBoN_VXM32OmDTk2hKeYExKzsnPjAVM7rLstQ8s/edit?pli=1#gid=695212681>

  - ICU License - to be added
  - W3C Software Notice and License (1998-07-20) - to be added; (change
    full name on existing W3C to add date, and avoid confusion)
  - W3C Software Notice and License (1998-05-19) - not adding; too old,
    only was in use for 2 months. no one had seen it used in wild on
    call. can always add later if need be.
  - W3C Document Notice and License (1999-04-05) - not adding now - see
    comments below re: non-open licenses
  - W3C Document License (2002-12-31) - not adding now

<!-- end list -->

  - This raised discussion as to whether to allow non-open source
    licenses on list with example of Sun Binary License again and
    prompted a mini-review of the license inclusion principles:
    <http://spdx.org/spdx-license-list/license-list-overview>
  - The W3C Document Licenses are non-free in that they prohibit
    modifications and the creation of derivative works. This fails the
    OSD.
  - Discussed whether we should amend the license inclusion principles
    such that documentation and specification licenses do not need to
    meet the OSD (as strictly) to be explicit about what we do and do
    not accept and avoid creating an un-intended slippery slope of
    inclusion
  - Decided that this is not the right time to make changes to the
    license inclusion guideline, as there are enough changes happening
    with 2.0 and such a change requires broader vetting with more of the
    SPDX Legal team, etc.
  - Also acknowledged that an annual review of the license inclusion
    principles (and other such license list collateral) is a good idea
    generally, so will endeavor to do so.
  - Idea raised to discuss this at Collab Summit, if we have enough
    people, as a face-to-face discussion would be a good way to start.
    Question open depending on who is there and schedule/room
    availability

**2) 2.0 update** - looked at SPDX License List v2.0-rc2 available here:
<http://spdx.org/licenses/preview/>

  - see notes from last meeting, Jan 8 re: some of the updates/changes
  - need to add live link to License Expression Syntax once v2.0 of Spec
    goes live, just a placeholder for now
  - discussed idea of adding examples of new license expression syntax
    for deprecated licenses/exceptions - decided to hold off until more
    eyes on 2.0 (both spec and license list) and review in a more
    holistic manner what further "practical tips" or other such
    information is needed, as well as where it should be appropriately
    placed

**3) Collab Summit overview** (coming up soon\!)

  - who's going? Dennis, Paul, Jilayne, Mark, Tom V.
  - Alan, Sam are not
  - full schedule now posted:
    <http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/collaboration-summit/program/schedule>
    note SPDX track on Thursday and Friday morning
