## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Paul Madick
  - Dennis Clark
  - Mark Gisi
  - Alan Tse

## Agenda

**1) SPDX 2.0 is on the verge of release**. Mark had made
recommendations in some of license-related areas of draft to remove
explanation of disjunctive and conjunctive licenses, since that is now
in the License Expression Syntax section; Jilayne to review

**2) SPDX License List, 2.0**

  - formatting on web pages now looks good on a variety of browsers and
    operating systems - yeah\!
  - Sortable columns work, but it's not obvious - add a note to the top
    text. Sorts by upper case, then lower case - see if that can be
    fixed for 2.1
  - Discussed timing for 2.1 release (since 2.0 has been up for a month
    or so and we have new licenses to add already) - wait for now.
  - Also discussed general cadence for new releases of SPDX License
    List. At one time had made a goal to release on quarterly basis
    (unless no updates) or a very compelling reason to do a
    interim/off-schedule release. Decided to get back to this. Future
    releases and dates will be as follows:
      - v2.1 - June 30, 2015
      - v2.2 - Sept 30, 2015
      - v2.3 - Dec 23, 2015
  - Regarding adding more exceptions, aim for 2.1 at end of June, but
    Paul to check with Tech team to make sure that's enough time for
    review, etc.

**3) New license request:**

  - UPL will be added as of v2.1 (update to tracking sheet)
  - Spencer license - whether to include all 3 variations? yes
  - Lesser General Public License for Linguistic Resources - name and
    short name issue: it's not at all like LGPL. Decided to add and use
    "LGPLLR" as short identifier.
  - ISC - already on list, Dennis to notify requestor
  - do we have a tool that can compare a license text against all
    licenses on the list? Just that task? Would be useful to use when
    people request to add a new license. Jilayne to email a few people
    who might have already come up with a way of doing this.

**4) License Headers - standard and non-standard**

  - standard headers are defined field on SPDX License List, but not
    that many licenses have them
  - Mark's proposal to add a field that would make a recommended header,
    to aide developers.
      - Use of short identifiers for this?
      - Would need to make clear that this is not for compliance
        purposes, but more for convenience of identifying license info
        for file in automated way
      - something to consider for future, in meantime, have some issues
        to deal with for standard headers and post-2.0 - to discuss on
        next call...
