## Attendees

  - Brad Edmondson
  - Dennis Clark
  - Paul Madick
  - Kate Stewart
  - Sam Ellis
  - Jilayne Lovejoy

## Agenda

1\) Update from joint call with tech team, Oct 25th, to go over XML tag
names. Good call, closed out pretty much everything. Meeting minutes
from that are here:
<http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/Minutes/2016-10-25>

2\) Other to-do's for XML license list conversion: need to propose new
process for conversion to using Github as primarily way to maintain
license list

  - Dennis to come up with list of types of issues/actions and do a
    first draft of process for each here:
    <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kGSs3CXbtjF_uZmVsjhXMGChyP-pzlszktTr8t4PmmI/edit>
    (this will most likely become a "contributing" document later
  - we discussed use of Github to this end, including: do we want
    \_all\_ issues or actions to be logged there? What is someone is not
    comfortable with Github, can they still "do things" via email? -
    answer here was to have good documentation as to how to log an issue
    (it's really easy). Worst case scenario, someone can move it to the
    issue system in Github for them to get tracked. Have to have a
    Github account to log an issue.
  - look into using issue templates in Github: Brad and Kris found:
    <https://github.com/kentcdodds/issue-template> and
    <https://help.github.com/articles/creating-an-issue-template-for-your-repository/>

3\) Other things that have come up on mailing list discussed:

  - request to add French translation of WTFPL and proposal that is this
    is an "official translation", then the license is already covered on
    SPDX License List, and only need to acknowledge that there is a
    French translation in the notes field (which is consistent with
    other licenses that come in various languages). --\> everyone on
    call agreed this is a good approach.
  - Also have a request fo Licencis Publica General para Bolivia - this
    is in the Google tracking spreadsheet
  - this lead to a more general discussion about non-English licenses
    and translations of licneses into multiple languages. This needs a
    broader discussion probably across other SPDX teams (tech and
    general), but some of the thoughts were:
      - If someone say, 'i have an equivalent translation (to a license
        already on the SPDX License List)' - we have said, OK to use the
        same identifier and added a link to the translation in the notes
        field. Should we make note of this "policy"? Or should every
        translation get it's own identifier and thus side step the
        "equivalent" question across different languages. How does this
        interplay with license matching?
      - if there is a request for a license in a language that is not
        English, how do we review? Do we need to have a native speaker
        of that language help with review to ensure it's been vetted in
        the same way?
      - Kate and Jilayne to suggest this as a topic of discussion as
        FSFE Legal & Licensing Workshop in April, to leverage viewpoints
        from international legal community on this topic
