## Attendees

  - Alan Tse
  - Sam Ellis
  - Kris Reeves
  - Kate Stewart
  - Mark Gisi
  - Brad Edmondson
  - Paul Madick
  - Dennis Clark
  - Tom Vidal

## Agenda

1\) New license requests and related topics:

  - BSD Source Code Attribution // BSD-Source-Code - we were going to
    try to get a hold of author of license before adding (re: name);
    have had no luck. Add it for next release - yes
  - BSD-3-Clause-NoNuclear - discussion on mailing list based on whether
    this should be included on SPDX License List. There are really two
    variations of this, one which includes the term about restriction on
    licensing and one does not. If add, should add both.
  - Also a request regarding US Gov't works in the public domain.
    Anything on license list needs an exact text (to match against). If
    US Gov't has or comes up with such a thing, we can add this.
      - This cut into discussion about whether we should have something
        in SPDX or not, which we have discussed before, see:
        <http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/Decisions/Dealing_with_Public_Domain_within_SPDX_Files_(DRAFT)>
        - if we are going to revisit this, it is a bigger conversation
        for another day.
      - Could provide a recommendation to use "LicenseRef-PublicDomain"
        as best practice. Does this go in spec? elsewhere?
  - Alan had looked at NPM issue that had wanted to use "proprietary" as
    identifier, but that is what LicenseRef is for. Alan will respond to
    the person who requested this.

2\) XML templates for SPDX License List and process for review:

  - Kris’ put up a video explaining the process, posted here:
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E_VoRQbDyEc>
  - He also put up a video on how to use Git - point of this is to allow
    others to make the changes needed
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nsSjT4cmVEc>
  - changes can also be made directly in Github: pull requests are
    coming from Kris' repository then to SPDX repository, so changes
    need to happen in Kris' repository - Kris may make another video to
    this end
  - wiki page for process description is here:
    <http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/Templatizing/ReviewXML>
  - process: add new licenses to list as usual process; get on with
    review; will use "assigned to" function in Github to make sure we
    don't work over each other; bullet tag will leave for now, but may
    want to note this as we review
  - timing: can we get review done by next release at end of June; will
    need to make this determination on June 9th legal call
  - new process for new licenses: once switch to XML would be to have
    text for license and Kris envisions a web-based tool to convert to
    XML (instead of doing it all by hand)
  - We will have special call next week on May 5th at 10am mtn time to
    go over XML review; please watch video and read wiki page prior to
    call\!\!
