## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Sam Ellis
  - Kris Reeves
  - Paul Madick
  - Kate Stewart
  - Alan Tse
  - Brad Edmondson

## Agenda

1\) A discussion came up on the tech team regarding how to identify when
there truly is no license and a package is just “all rights reserved” -
please read the thread here:
<https://bugs.linuxfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1289> including my
response at the bottom.

  - issue in Node and NPM - they were looking at specification for node
    package, which has a license field, but may not have room for other
    info as is done in SPDX specification; looking for what to populate
    that field with. For more info, see:
    <https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json>
  - what can we do to help the situation? more than explanation on
    bugzilla needed?
  - Kris suggested something in the Appendix to clarify use of NONE or
    NOASSERTION v. license expression and/or get NPM to modify to
    support for that use case in NPM nit command
  - seems also helpful to add clarification to Appendix IV in spec -
    (e.g., NONE as a valid option as license expression) - put as a bug
    and assign to Kate, will confer with Jilayne and legal team on
    wording
  - NONE makes sense (for Node) to be a valid "license expression" b/c
    there is no "i don't know" when it's the author declaring the
    license; NOASSERTION doesn't make sense in this case (unless
    developer was waiting on legal for approval).
  - also would help to amend node documentation to point this out b/c
    people coming in there may not be looking at SPDX spec and looks
    like NPM is now suggesting "unlicensed" - Kris to reach out to them
    and open a bug to amend language there

2\) 2016 priorities list, posted here:
<http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/Current_Projects_and_Issues-2016>

  - looking for people to take the lead on some of these items (didn't
    get to on today's call)
  - Regarding the markup project - as we have earmarked this as a main
    priority for 2016 and this discussion has been resurrected on the
    tech call recently
  - See above link for reminder of this issue; we had had a joint call
    in October and then the tech team was going to kick the tires and
    schedule another joint call
  - Tech team has earmarked call for Jan 19 for joint discussion; Kate
    will send invite to legal and tech teams with specific dial-in next
    week

3\) Open Gaming License

  - Alan did some research - license seems to try to cover /
    differentiate various aspects, including mechanics of game and
    things related to brand identity; seems like IP law concepts got a
    bit muddled in license drafting and perhaps trying to cover things
    by copyright that aren't really copyright-able. Tries to draw a line
    b/w what can be modified/shared and what can't (this stuff is often
    bundled together in reality)
  - We do have other "non-software", e.g., documentation licenses (FDL,
    CC licenses) on list, but they are truly open
  - question as to open-ness of this license - attempts to allow "open
    game content" to be open, but limits open license to this and not
    "product identity" aspects. Kris explained this draws line around
    rules/mechanical functional part v. settings/universe in games and
    otherwise tried to educate those of us who are clueless on gaming as
    to what this license is trying to achieve
  - Brad wondered if the intent of the license was actually to have more
    items included in "open game content" definition than is articulated
  - How commonly used is this license? Alan thinks it is common within
    the gaming industry. Kris found that Wizards of the Coast owns (c)
    of license and uses it; they are big deal and means that it is
    probably used for their stuff
  - The license is both open, and very restrictive. how do we balance
    "open-ness" v. "use"? would wide use and more requests to add tip
    the balance? We have prioritized open-ness
  - Decision: license is not open enough, too many restrictions. Alan to
    let submitter know
