## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Sam Ellis
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Kris Reeves
  - Brad Edmondson
  - Alan Tse
  - Paul Madick

## Agenda

Last call, Alan had made an attempt to revise the Matching Guidelines,
which raised question as to where to put the description of the XML tags
as well as other topics that need tech and legal team input. We
discussed a variety of these (some of discussion capture below and final
“action items” capture on updated list here:

  - Sam brought up README on Github page - need info on contributions
    there and how to use the files - could put description of XML tags
    on Github
  - Alan: probably should be appendix of actual spec, but also good to
    have it on Github

What is scope of first release - Is it a spec or is it internal to legal
team?

  - Kris thought: first release to include XML that people could use,
    but could stage it
  - Gary: if we want to stage it, then want to be sure that people know
    names/tags are not stable (not consistent with spec or conflict).
    Kris’ goal was that once review was complete, then deal with this
    (updating tags). OK, but can we try to do this for first release?
  - maybe shouldn’t release XML as a “product” to general consumers -
    maybe use it internally in a branch to generate the stuff that we do
    release — take XML and produce everything from that and that’s what
    other people consume. Later, make XML the official release (staged
    approach)
  - appendix (current) for markup will need to be updated - e.g., var v.
    alt - debate on that
  - does this mean we queue off of spec 2.2 release? Gary says no, can
    do first release to use internally

with understanding that tags might change

  - Kris suggested - release same files we have been releasing (but use
    XML files to build it, XML files stay in a private branch
  - Gary said we have this “problem” today in that people were using
    spreadsheet as THE source of record, so he updated the README on
    Github to say this is internal - so could use an in between approach
    and say, “this XML format is intended for internal use for producing
    the SPDX-LL - if you want a machine-readable format, see JSON, RDF,
    etc. - almost same as now
  - discussed overall goals of switch to XML, twofold
      - increase collaboration, this is accomplished without it being a
        public spec
      - improve output of licenses for tools… are people waiting for
        this? one person that Gary knows of not on call (Sam and Gary
        may switch anyway)

needed follow-ups / plan forward from this discussion:

  - delegate tag name issue to tech team - Gary to take it to tech team.
    bring back to legal team for final check
  - documentation: go with Github documentation (don’t worry about wiki
    pages, and don’t publish outside of Github until we have final
    specification)
  - update to 2 stages on action plan
