## Attendees

  - Dennis Clark
  - Kyle Mitchell
  - Mark Gisi
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Alas Tse
  - Eric Weddington

## Agenda

**1) Summary from joint call on Jan 19 with tech team** - see notes
posted here:

  - Key next step: Kris to post actual example of new markup and joint
    call with tech team on Tuesday, Feb 2 @ Tuesdays at 18:00 GMT
    (10:00AM PT, 11:00 MT, 12:00PM CT, 1:00PM ET) - Jilayne to send
    invite to Legal team
  - Kyle able to help from tech and legal side - he'll confer with Kris
    after Feb 2 call
  - discussed that anything that enables people to contribute is a good
    thing (not everyone can make calls, etc.), but care needs to be
    taken at opening the fire hose on the license list via Github as
    Github may create "drive-by" pull requests and mailing list might be
    still better for some things
  - will be good to have nailed down documentation of process for
    various changes; in trying to articulate process, will help us think
    through these potential issues
  - Gary O'Neall has put up a Google doc with proposal of process: add
    comments there and we'll schedule time to discuss more thoroughly on
    upcoming call(s):
    <https://docs.google.com/document/d/115Lis1SJV7Rp-XuNjIysU61urzFGjUOBPqEdVyGLsfI/edit>
  - Note: Collab Summit is Mar 29-31, Squaw Valley, CA - would be good
    to have as many people there as possible

**2) new licenses on OSI list:** review to add to SPDX, decide on short
identifiers

  - if OSI adds a license, should it automatically be added to SPDX
    list? all assumed this was the case, but not articulated. At that
    point, it meets OSD (no reason for us to re-hash that\!) and it's
    just a matter of coming up with short identifier and mechanics of
    getting it on license list. Need to add a sentence to this effect on
    the overview page:
    <http://spdx.org/spdx-license-list/license-list-overview> (Jilayne
    to come up proposed text to add and where to add it - email to group
    for vetting).
  - OSI has become active with adding licenses as of recently; need to
    define process to get heads up so we can come up with short
    identifiers for them to add to their website in consistent fashion -
    working on this. (OSI displays SPDX short identifiers in ( ) next to
    license name in list and on license page and as URL
  - maybe good to give OSI something as placeholder: to put in
    parenthesis, e.g., (SPDX identifier to come) and something to put on
    the page itself, e.g., a notification that SPDX identifier is coming
    and that URL might change. Kyle to provide Kate with some proposed
    language.
  - <http://opensource.org/licenses/OPL-2.1> - somewhat problematic
    because OSET Public License in their exhibit uses "OPL" but this is
    already an abbreviation and short identifier for the Open Public
    License, which is an older license that is already on SPDX and
    Fedora list (http://spdx.org/licenses/OPL-1.0.html). Suggestion to
    reach out to OSET authors to ask to change short identifiers. Eric
    volunteered to do this. We will also let OSI that we are undertaking
    this route.
  - <http://opensource.org/licenses/LiLiQ-P-1.1> - accept for next SPDX
    License List with LiLiQ-P-1.1 as short identifier, no markup, in
    French with link to English
  - <http://opensource.org/licenses/LiLiQ-R-1.1> - accept for next SPDX
    License List with LiLiQ-R-1.1 as short identifier, no markup, in
    French with link to English
  - <http://opensource.org/licenses/LiLiQ-Rplus-1.1> - accept for next
    SPDX License List, don't want "+" in short identifier b/c of
    operators (also may be problematic to use in URL), will use:
    LiLiQ-Rplus-1.1, no markup, in French with link to English
