## Attendees:

  - Brad Edmondsen
  - Steven Esser
  - Stephanie Arce
  - Mark Baushke
  - Alan Tse
  - Jilayne Lovejoy

## Agenda

1\) welcome to Stephanie and issue of full access to pull requests? may
need to ask Kris for additional access

  - JL to email Kris re: this - DONE, fixed

2\) issues to discuss in XML markup

  - Apache-1.0 / 1.1 - added markup to names (add issue to 1.0), made
    attempt at change in 1.1 - now resolved
  - BSD-3-Clause - all agreed we would like to have markup for this -
    now added
  - realized we don’t have a write-up for explaining markup (e.g., alt
    tags) - we need this and where should it go?
  - \* spec has section for this
  - \* should also go into DTD (definition record to allow formal proof
    that you are using appropriate language; defines what are key words,
    what are meaning, what are values parameters. format is both machine
    and human). Who is doing this? Gary, Trevor - see
    <https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/391> - that is XSD
    format. do we want both XSD and DTD format? Some examples of both,
    but usually one of the other and Mark said the schema is more
    powerful
  - \* where to put this? on website, in Github repo, both?
      - where to put issues now? Brad’s recommendation to punt stuff to
        the Github repo
  - if not urls, should <urls> tag be there and be empty? not sure if
    seen this before (example was GCC-exception-2.0). this is defined by
    whether it is a required element or optional, would be defined in
    schema. delete for now, merge
  - remove notes about deprecated exception in current exception
  - SGI-B-1.1 - do we need markup in standard header? yes. Add markup
    for two places in brackets. Discussed whether the first bracket may
    need separate items for name of software, version number, and
    release date - Brad to add markup
