## Attendees

  - Brad Edmondson
  - Paul Madick
  - Alexios Zavras
  - Michael Herzog
  - Mike Dolan
  - Karen Copenhaver
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Alan Tse

## Agenda

1\) XML Update: website preview:

  - \~30 licenses had issues - need to address when cleaned up - some
    just out of order, etc.
      - some had to do with lists that didn't have items or missing end
        list tag
      - tag for other URLs: if that is empty it throws an error - if no
        URL, then remove that tag/section altogether --\> after
        conversion, Gary can fix and commit directly.
  - landing page with table - looks the same, no changes
  - individual pages: (Apache-2.0 as example)
      - bullets/numbers are showing up on a separate line. after we
        convert, do a global search and replace and remove p tag around
        bullet tag - should then display correctly - will want to review
        after that to make sure it didn't break it otherwise
      - colored text for replaceable and omitable text (red and blue)
        displaying same for red text, but blue is not showing up -
        should trigger off of optional tag
  - process:

<!-- end list -->

1.  still need to review \~20 licenses
2.  address any remaining issues
3.  freeze\!\! XML repository (change settings to only a few people have
    direct commit access)
4.  in XML repository: new tag conversion (to new names)
5.  address any issues related to generating webpage (Gary or will file
    new issue)
6.  generate web pages to PREVIEW
7.  resolve any issues
8.  go live\!

<!-- end list -->

  - need to sort out how to replace old repository with XML
    repository...
      - put note on old one and refer to new one and just use that
      - rename? have to sort out how that would work. maybe just rename
        current one to "archive" and keep XML repo name as is
      - OR clone XML into current repo, then get rid of XML repo --\>
        this seems like better option
  - then update other webpages:
      - move matching guidelines into Github too, so can be tracked for
        changes, etc.
      - process requesting a new license and tracking that (in Github,
        in spreadsheet, etc.)
      - XML description Schema? (add link to that... where?)
      - general instructions on contributing to the license list - on
        Github README (with link to that from website / license list
        page)

2\) Request to add Linux Normal System Call Note to SPDX License List

  - is this an exception? this is where it structurally belongs re: the
    SPDX License List
  - acknowedgment that "exception" concept language, was not well-formed
    at the time Linus put this note with the license. it is with the
    license, part of license, not just some random info somewhere else
  - what about extra paragraph re: GPL only as found here?
    <https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blame/master/COPYING>
  - Karen and Mike to go back to kernel folks to ask about this
    variation
