## Attendees

  - Bradlee Edmondson
  - Alexios Zavras
  - Steve Winslow
  - Mark Gisi
  - Phil Odence
  - Paul Madick
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Kate Stewart
  - Gary O’Neall
  - John Sullivan
  - Bradley Kuhn

## Agenda

**1) XML update & next steps**

1.  need to finish last few “old” PRs (handful of Cecil versions) —\> JL
    to look at Cecil for review; Alexios to fix list tags
2.  then Gary to run XML clean-up to replace old tags with what we
    decided on. He'll plan on doing this on Tuesday, so please no one
    make any changes to the XML repo on Tuesday and Gary will post on
    the mailing list when he's done
3.  then add new licenses/exceptions since last release; will need to be
    added manually at the moment - NEED VOLUNTEER
    1.  Kris’ tool did conversion but uses old tags and command line, so
        this won't be useful here/going forward. It would be good to
        have a conversion tool of some kind for new licenses going
        forward: can someone volunteer to work on this?
4.  add FSF free/libre license designation
    1.  Gary to add to schema, will use XML tag: isFSFfree
    2.  Kate has spreadsheet of licenses; FSF to review
    3.  NEED VOLUNTEER to add XML tag to relevant license from list
    4.  display of this in license list table will follow OSI Approved?
        format with a Y or blank; column heading = "FSF free/libre
        list?" or "FSF libre list?" depending on spacing
    5.  display on individual license pages: add "OSI Approved License"
        and "FSF-recognized free/libre license" where relevant; display
        of text will be conditional (nothing for those license that
        don't apply): Gary to add this to web page generator tooling;
        Alexios and Jilayne to help with HTML formatting
5.  Gary to run another preview of web conversion; all review - make any
    changes, updates as needed to web conversion tools
6.  work on any needed changes to webpages and spec:
    1.  move matching guidelines to Appendix II of spec with updates
        related to XML as needed (then remove webpage, redirect to page
        in spec). Kate logged issue in spec, Jilayne to work on
    2.  overview webpage needs to be minor updates in description of
        fields, rest is probably fine - should this be in spec or on
        webpage? TBD, keep in consideration when looking at other
        updates
7.  documentation for Github repo (how to request a new license, log
    issues, etc.) I think someone started this, need to find draft??
8.  when ready to switch we move content from XML repo to the master
    <https://github.com/spdx/license-list>
    1.  what happens to issues and pull requests from XML repo? and ones
        existing in license-list repo? Does XML repo remain but
        abandoned? more research on functionality of Github for this
        kind of thing needed

**2) EPL-2.0 and “assembly exception issue**

  - follow Philippe’s suggestion for adding new exception with full
    text, pending confirmation with Wayne
  - using parenthesis - started to discuss how this is defined in spec,
    and how used with EPL-2.0 situation, but ran out of time, so
    discussion moved to mailing list
