## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Paul Madick
  - Alexios Zavrias
  - Hung Chang
  - Steven Esser
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Mark Gisi
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Brad Edmondon (phone)
  - Sam Elllis (phone)

## Agenda (morning legal team meeting w/follow-up from afternoon session noted)

Went through, update, and identify areas that are done, need work, need
help from Action Plan -
<http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/Templatizing/ActionPlan> --\> see
page for updates, further notes below: Items identified for later,
broader meeting in bold below.

  - Kris' conversion tool made available:
      - Tool requires a bunch of environment stuff, so would be too much
        to ask people requesting a new license to use it. Better
        workflow to have someone from team set it up.
      - Gary thinks it may be just as easy to hand-code it, but would
        need a good example or .xsd so then could use that and
        validation (instead of Kris' tool). Then can use an XML editor
        to load .xsd that can then check. Need to finalize tags/clean-up
        run before creating .xsd schema. If requestor wants to run it,
        then they can use pull request, if not up for it then they can
        submit issue.
          - Jack, Gary, Brad to work on this. will put this in license
            list repo
          - NOTE: this will also impact instructions for requesting a
            new license, so will need to update documentation to reflect
            this

<!-- end list -->

  - Convert and add deprecated licenses to repository (GARY)
      - done but for a handful, needs non-deprecated GPL licenses to be
        done

<!-- end list -->

  - When a new license is added to the list, it is currently recorded in
    the SPDX License List master spreadsheet. Where will this info be in
    the new XML world? Should we put this meta data in license itself,
    as a new tag or can we use Github release magic to track that way?
      - discussion on various options for this and why we want to retain
        this info:
          - what licenses were added for a given release?
          - (what licenses were updated for a given release?) - captured
            in Git commit messages
      - decision to have meta data in license for version. This would
        require adding an optional XML field/tag.
          - don’t add them for all the “old” licenses; add as of 2.6 and
            going forward so that it shows up somewhere as example;
            anyone can pull request to go back for older versions and
            add it
          - define a new XML tag = listVersionAdded as an attribute;
            value would be: 2.3 (see
            <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z9n44xLH2MxT576KS_AbTOBtecyl5cw6RsrrQHibQtg/edit>
            for full info)
          - do we want to display this or just have it in the file? no
            for now, do not display
          - **make sure tech team is ok with this plan and name** -
            checked during later session, OK

<!-- end list -->

  - incorporating synonyms into XML - wait on this. method - central
    dictionary or per license basis? Added to action plan as was not
    listed there before

<!-- end list -->

  - Updates to spec as result of XML conversion and general discussion
    on ensuring people understand all the aspects of the SPDX License
    List (not just a "list", also includes matching guidelines, etc.)
      - should the SPDX License List and all it entails (e.g. Appendix
        1, 2, 4) be its own spec, which would enable development at a
        different pace
      - start with improving messages on lead-in, e.g., start with "The
        SPDX License List is comprised of..." and then list all aspects.
        Move up Matching Guidelines, add hooks to relevant sections of
        spec
      - should we add sentence in every license page that links to
        Matching Guidelines?
      - **other feedback on improvements to this end?** - legal team to
        make suggested revisions for others to review
      - also need “how to” doc on how to use the license list or
        examples of how to use the license list, including matching
        guidelines and examples — to go here:
        <http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Documents> —\> Jack to add link //
        Sam and Jack to do first draft
      - **Appendix II will need to be updated when go live - should this
        be with v2.2 of spec or can it be maintenance release?** - would
        be a v2.2 release of spec
