## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Dennis Clark
  - Brad Edmondson
  - Paul Madick
  - Gary Oâ€™Neall
  - Kate Stewart
  - Alexios Zavras

## Agenda

1\) Open Source Leadership Summit

  - we have time on Friday morning, possible topics?
      - how is it going (with Github) so far? How are we using it so
        far? How to better use Github?
      - Dennis commented we could probably add a lot more licenses to
        the SPDX License List
      - call for other things to discuss
  - who will be there: Jilayne, Kate, Dennis, Paul?, Jack, Yev?
  - JL to send email to mailing list re: time and agenda; time, 9am -
    lunch. Room TBD

2\) Release 3.1

  - suggestion to have release candidate before 3.1 a few days before
    actual release. So can see what all the changes are so far in one
    place
  - this would just be a tag, not a release
  - any pressing changes:
      - BitTorrent license issue, XML schema change
  - timing: check on status of key things (LLVM and Assembly exception)
    on Feb 8 call (Jilayne won't be there); if resolved, then do release
    candidate and actual release the following week.

3\) went through PRs/ Issues, prioritize

  - u-boot title issue: discussion of title matching generally: title is
    usually treated as optional, the way the tools work this usually
    means that if the title is not there, then ok; it title is there, it
    must match as found. In this case, use of alt tag would allow the
    variations found.

Note on PRs: if comments begin to get in double digit number, then
please move discussion for next call, as it's less time consuming than
trying to follow long threads :)
