## Attendees

  - Paul Madick
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Steve Winslow
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Brad Edmondson
  - Dennis Clark
  - Mark Atwood

## Agenda

1\) Update on tooling that came out of GSoC:

  - couple issues that we discussed on last call, Tushar fixed and code
    has been committed. GSoC is now over, but sounds like Tushar and
    Gallo
  - Aim to converge tools into one and put on website and any issues
    that are show stoppers to use resolved by then as well. Once up and
    ready, would be good to go through another demo on a later legal
    call and then decide what process changes may be impacted

2\) cleaned up status of committers, etc. on Github license-list-XML
repo as per Gary’s recommendations

3\) went over some of the “discuss on legal call” issues in Github,
closed out a few, (Nasa license markup, Open Gov’t License, license for
source code) see repo for notes there
