## Attendees

  - Bradlee Edmondson
  - John Horan
  - Dennis Clark
  - Steve Winslow
  - Bradley Kuhn

## Agenda

1\) 3.3 final PRs to merge before release:

  - license for source files associated with SPDX License List - changed
    to CC0-1.0 - no further comments, done
  - CUA-OPL-1.0 is now officially noted as retired in OSI - updated
    notes section in SPDX to reflect same
  - OGL-UK-1.0 - Steve is working on fixing, will submit PR
  - FreeRTOS note - add note that exception is old and now released
    under MIT
      - Jilayne had question as to capitalization of XML filename, does
        this matter or is it just annoying to her?

2\) other discussion

  - In light of license change for FreeRTOS (and that other projects do
    change license), Bradley raised idea of recording this in such as
    way that tooling would find this info that it's been relicensed,
    something like you might get a notification about the change of
    license
      - all agreed this would be a nice thing to have, but where/how to
        record? Spec isn't really right place; could we record something
        in a more machine-readable part of the XML? in license scanning
        tools?
      - Bradley offered to write up description and then we can engage
        tech team for further discussion/ideas. see:
        <https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/716>
  - need to tackle a couple things related to the "exceptions" list,
    which we have previously discussed changing the description for or
    even re-naming. Relatedly, there is the Linux Kernel Enforcement
    Statement and now the GPL Cooperation Commitment, as well as the
    Google patent grant (and diff versions). It'd be nice to tackle this
    on a scheduled call so we can try to have all interested parties (as
    well as via mailing list, of course). Watch for scheduling of that,
    likely to be Nov 29th meeting
