## Attendees

  - Dennis Clark
  - Steve Winslow
  - Mark Atwood
  - Brad Edmondson
  - Alexios Zavras
  - Paul Madick
  - Kate Stewart
  - Gary O’Neall

## Agenda

Update from last call: smaller group, went over outstanding items in
Issues/PRs - closed a few.

1\) question re: upgrade spec license from CC-BY-3.0 to 4.0? (Issue 3 in
spdx-spec)

  - CC-BY-3.0 doesn’t have auto-upgrade / or-later clause, so in order
    to change to 4.0, would have to get everyone’s permission
  - came up on tech call as something to look at, but didn’t seem to
    have a pressing need or compelling reason to change
  - JL will note discussion in Issue and close

2\) Issue 648 re: license for licenses - This was already addressed on
the mailing list and answered by several lawyers. This has been asked
before. (note about legal answers not being satisfying to engineers -
but it's still an answer\!). Paul to write up reason why we don't need
this with help/review from Steve and Brad. We’ll post on wiki in
“decisions” section (similar to what we did in past for repeating
question as to why we don't have an identifier for "public domain")

3\) From tech team: License List in appendix of Spec - will continue to
do so for spec v2.2 and split out for 3.0. Want to make sure to have
most recent version for v2.2 , which is aimed to be released Sept/Oct

  - next license list release (3.2) is pending for end of June; 3.3
    would be end of Sept - Revisit in early Aug so we can make sure
    license list release planned for Sept/v3.3 corresponds with timing
    of v2.2 of spec.

4\) GSoC update from Gary: going well, went through first evaluation
period, all students passed.

  - Good design on license submittal project, now need to get coding.
  - There’s a prototype soon to be available for license XML editor,
    watch for link and Gary asked legal team to try it out and provide
    feedback.

5\) Next release of license list for v3.2 - go over issues:

  - reviewed and merged PRs: 644, 650
  - PR 651 - proposal to add info about case-insensitive identifiers:
    over-arching value here is something we've had since very beginning:
    make sure identifiers are unique. The additional aspect of
    case-sensitive is a detail of that broader theme. This info does not
    belong in the README but should be added to Overview page in section
    on short identifiers, (add comment, close PR)
      - JL to draft additional bullet and float that by group via email
        before updating webpage
      - ACII characters only, (also discussed UTF-8 - but that is
        broader scope than just identifiers)
  - other PRs with 3.2 milestone to be sorted out and merged in next
    week/ by Monday, June 25th, so Gary can push new version of license
    list by Friday June 29th. Same for Issues, or move to 3.3 if can't
    be resolved without additional input. please be sure to assign any
    you are looking at so we don't overlap.
