2019-08-08

## Attendees

  - Mark Atwood
  - John Horan
  - Paul Madick
  - Alan Tse
  - Steve Winslow
  - Alexios Zavras

## Minutes

Discussions and decisions for several matters were noted in the
corresponding threads in the Github issues. Additional discussions are
noted below.

For UCL-1.0, John will draft the XML + test files with Steve's review.

XML and test files for the new Polyform set of licenses were submitted
as a PR: <https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/pull/903> (Not
submitted as an issue, so wasn't initially seen by the legal team.) The
team continued the ongoing discussion of whether licenses like this are
appropriate for inclusion on the license list, where they are source
available and in a standardized / templated format for use by any
licensor, but where they are clearly not within e.g. the OSI definition
of open source.

Discussion noted that some users and consumers of SPDX documents /
license IDs want to be able to refer to source-available licenses
through that process, even if not open source. It was noted that there
are at least two relevant reasons for the existing license inclusion
guidelines: one being purpose-focused (the "generally FOSS" nature of
the list), and the other being practical (availability of time for SPDX
volunteers). It was also discussed how this question intersects with the
idea of "namespaced" LicenseRef- identifiers that anyone can use to
refer to licenses that are not approved for inclusion on the list.

General consensus was that a decision on the Polyform licenses should be
related to a broader conversation about changes to the license inclusion
guidelines, similar to the pending outcome on some other recent license
submissions with e.g. non-commercial restrictions.

An issue was raised at
<https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/752> requesting that
"-only" and "-or-later" modifiers be made to the EUPL family of
licenses, as was done for the GNU licenses. Discussion on the call
agreed that this change would only be considered upon request from the
license steward, and that in most cases the existing "+" operator should
suffice.
