## Attendees

  - Paul Madick
  - Dennis Clark
  - Brad Edmondson
  - John Horan
  - Steve Winslow
  - Mark Baushke
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Philippe Ombrdanne

## Agenda

1\) Open Source Leadership Summit agenda

  - SPDX f2f time is Monday afternoon 1-5pm
  - open agenda with all of SPDX team; rough agenda to cover:
      - next release of spec and related topics there
      - Mark Atwood’s proposal for non-open source licenses and
        standardized way to identify
      - review from last OSLS discussion on better presentation of SPDX
        License List as a whole, have we done any of those things, and
        what still needs to be done
  - anything else we should cover?
      - should we consider expanding scope of “open source” as a
        guidance for adding to the list? same problem of doing this
        still exists - current request relates to a new variant of
        Creative Commons license - maybe explain the historical context
        of including all CC licenses and log this somewhere for
        reference? There is also always the issue of how to find, where
        to draw line, and the labor involved (no one who asks for this
        has ever had this answer or has offered)
      - we could do better on LicenseRef- option - ReUse guidelines
        recommends this use - <https://reuse.software/practices/2.0/>
        Mark’s proposal may also help to this end

2\) Next release due for end of March - that means we’ll do a freeze as
of March 21 meeting. Given current number of issues (some of which need
discussion), anything new that isn’t easily resolved will get pushed to
next release at this point.

3\) Issues for 3.5: Steve discussed a few he has updated:

  - Twente license: submitted to OSI and SPDX at same time; MIT
    variation where they added a few things; concept of derivatives and
    require list for Data Controllers (seems like they are aiming for
    GDPR compliance). OSI has been going back and forth and some edits
    have been made. Submitter has been responsive - Steve asked if text
    has stabilized and if it’s used - projects waiting to switch to it,
    but waiting for SPDX identifier.
      - we want to wait until OSI finished their process and makes a
        decision
      - we want to have a SPDX short identifier so this if OSI approves,
        the identifier has already been chosen
  - note about NPM: if don’t have an SPDX identifier for your license,
    NPM throws up warning. Whenever the SPDX License List is updated,
    NPM doesn’t automatically pick it up, but they usually do, then has
    to go into next release of NPM client tool and users have to update
    NPM client tool (long lag time). There is some room for better
    coordination there \*\* should we have some kind of advice or
    write-up that suggests a way to notify when new SPDX License List is
    release? (kind of like when Gary wrote up paper on programmatically
    accessing the license list, instead of scraping the website)
  - HPND variation - Steve looked at from last call, now submitted a PR
  - MIT-CMU / Pillow license - same with templating or new license?
    discussed and decided to template MIT-CMU
