## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Philip Odence
  - Alexios Zavras
  - John Horan
  - Mark Baushke
  - Steve Winslow
  - Brad Edmondson
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Mike Dolan

## Agenda

1\) Open Source Leadership Summit coming up, March 12-14. SPDX face2face
on the Monday afternoon. Who will be there?

  - maybe Michael Herzog and Philippe O (but not Dennis) from NexB
  - Steve W most likely for some of our meeting
  - Alexios - maybe
  - Gary will be there
  - Jilayne will be there

2\) Namespace idea for other licenses (not open source or on SPDX
License List) - tech team to schedule call on that, will aim for joint
call with legal team at tech team time. In the meantime, see email
thread to get caught up.

3\) Looked at issues marked for 3.5 milestone

  - issue 753 re: HPND templating or new license? will add as new
    license
  - issue 752 - discuss “only” and “or later” options on EUPL - how to
    rectify? currently, implicit that plain means only and + means or
    later, as it’s always been. Should we add “only” as operator to be
    explicit? maybe as “=“ or “\!” to indicate, so not a word, and
    distinct from GNU licenses special treatment. Preference for \!
    symbol
      - adding a new operator needs further review with tech team, etc -
        maybe wait to 3.0 of spec? (next year time frame)

<!-- end list -->

  - need people to pick up issues - assign yourself or risk Jilayne
    assigning you\!
  - need check list for license review (for SPDX legal team members who
    are in charge of license) - JL add to repo as new doc, Brad to
    review
