2019-10-03

## Attendees

  - Mark Atwood
  - Mark Baushke
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - John Horan
  - Paul Madick
  - Steve Winslow

## Minutes

Comments on specific issues are contained in the particular GitHub issue
threads at <https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues>

Work continued on preparing and finalizing issues for the upcoming 3.7
release. Issues 923, 913 and 867 were discussed and comments included in
thread.

908 – MirOS – go to OSI? or go back to author to say it matches against
OSI website? If putting in new optional text, files under the old
instructions text would not be found

925 – License inclusion guidelines discussion – advertise for next legal
team call. Won’t be a redline rule, need to think about how we draft
this so that it’s clearly a “totality of the circumstances”. Challenging
part is it’s not one continuum, it’s a mix of factors
