SPDX Legal Team Minutes, December 3, 2020

## Attending
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* John Horan
* Paul Madick
* Emmanuel Tournier
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

For today's agenda, now that 3.11 is out:

1. We will be turning to assigning out issues for 3.12. The (lengthy!) list of open issues currently tagged for 3.12 can be seen at https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%223.12+release%22
2. We will also briefly touch on next steps for the licensing profile discussions for SPDX 3.0.

## Minutes

Starting to review the 34 issues tagged as 3.12.
End of January 2021 is current release date, but it may slip.

* #1087.  BSD variant.  John Horan will tackle.

* #1088.  Variant of an existing license.  Rishabh Bhatnagar will tackle.

* #1094.  BSD-3-Clause variant.  Paul Madick will tackle.

* #1095.  Technical issue -- Steve will review with Gary.

* #1096.  Skip for now.

* #1098.  Modification of Blue Oak license?  Steve will take this.

* #1099.  Booz Allen license.  Steve will contact Booz Allen re use in the wild.  Many references in the text to Booz Allen.  And non-distrbution provisions.

* #1104.  Skip for now.

* #1107.  Looks commercial.  Text is not clear -- changed post-submission?  Emmanuel will look into the current status of the license text.

* #1109.  Looks like older Apple documentation license.  Ask submitter for projects that used/use this.  Rishabh will inquire.  The name "Common Documentation License" looks rather generic, may lead to some false positives.

* #1110.  Same submitter as #1109: another documentation license.  Rishabh will also inquire.

* #1111.  Similar to BSD-2.  John Horan will tackle.  Likely an easy yes because of FreeBSD being a widely-used project.

* #1112.  Steve will handle this governmental license (Taiwan).

* There are more submissions but not enough participants on this call to handle for now.

* Please use the issue/submission comments to report research results, pose questions (e.g., wide use, other guideline factors) etc.

* Turning to the license profile.

* Consider [re-]naming / merging conjunctive and disjunctive License Expression categories.  Raise on tech call with Gary et al.

* Steve: update re Licensing Profile discussions.  Waiting for input from tech team re any changes to structure; next Tues. call will likely focus on this.  Steve and Jilayne will then take earlier notes and create initial draft we can use for discussion, changes etc. going forward.
