SPDX Legal Team notes, June 4, 2020

== Attendees ==
* Mark Atwood
* Mark Baushke
* VM (Vicky) Brasseur
* Mike Dolan
* Brad Edmondson
* Brad Goldring
* John Horan
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Emmanuel Tournier
* Steve Winslow

== Agenda prior to call ==

The main focus will be to review the status of issues for 3.10 that were assigned out to folks at the last session, and to review which ones are ready for discussion vs. still in process.

The currently-tagged 3.10 issues can be seen at: https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%223.10+release%22

If there is time, we will also have an initial discussion about some of the proposed changes to the licensing-related fields for the SPDX 3.0 spec that is now in process. The initial details of the current proposal from the tech team can be seen at https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/385

Finally and on a related note, on next Tuesday, June 9, there will be a joint legal/tech team call during the tech team's usual meeting at 10AM PDT / 1PM EDT. I will send a separate invite to this list -- hope you are able to join, as we'll be discussing the same proposed fields for SPDX 3.0.

== Minutes ==

Discussion of where to store minutes, historical decisions, etc. Difficult to take minutes while also hosting; unsure how detailed to make them; typically put updates directly in the issue, not sure about need for reproducing in separate minutes.

Think it makes sense to keep everything in one spot. Github or Wiki, pick one. Consider going round robin for taking minutes.

Google Docs or Etherpad server? Only concern is pragmatically, if “everyone” is taking minutes then will anybody? One thought, one person per meeting is the primary notetaker but others help to expand, clarify, etc. Also don’t need a sophisticated permission model given the relatively small group. Person running the meeting is responsible for creating the document, include dial-in info

Discussed issues in https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues (comments in threads):
* #1043: NIST-PD licenses
* #1026: Open Group license (for older xorg apps)
* #1012: EPICS (Argonne National Laboratory)
* #767: CC-BY-NC-ND-3.0-IGO (and related discussion of where to find documentation for creating new licenses)

Previewed discussion for next week’s joint tech/legal team call with intro to https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/385, regarding proposed licensing profile fields for SPDX spec v3.0. One participant raised view that “contributors” (separate from copyright holders) likely should be included in a profile other than licensing, if the field is included in v3.0.

