# SPDX Legal Team Minutes, October 22, 2020

## Attending
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* Andreas Czerniak
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Steve Winslow
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Emmanuel Tournier
* Paul Madick

## Agenda

For today's agenda, we'll be setting aside the licensing profile discussions that have taken up the last few meetings, and will turn back to review the open license list requests that are tagged for 3.11. We will also discuss whether the 3.11 release date (originally targeted for end of this month) should be pushed out to November or December.

## Minutes
* #720: asked Mark Atwood for an update.
* #979: The usage of the actual exception itself is limited. In a quick search, could find only single project actually using it. The license is included in the website as a part of the Wix Toolset License. [https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/979#issuecomment-714608906]
* #995: Jilayne reaching out to Legal Network for contacts at MariaDB as license steward
* #1026: Steve reached out to contact address at The Open Group but didn't get a response. Discussed whether to choose name / identifier without original author/steward's input, and SPDX historical practice around contacting stewards.
* #1106 [CC-BY-SA-2.0-UK ]; Use case of Yockto in their projects is wide enough to be accepted.
* #1063: CC-BY-3.0 US variant, widely used with many instances on GitHub.
* #1059: Given the model SPDX uses, the text doesn't seem to be a right fit for either License, LicenseException or any other LicenseExpression.

### 3.11 release date
* discussed whether to extend target release date of Oct. 31
* shift to target release date of November 25 (before American Thanksgiving holiday) - use Nov 19th call for any 3.11 tidying up

ACTION ITEM FOR ALL: please review license inclusion guidelines and comment on any new license request issues as to your opinion if the license/exception should be included on the SPDX License List!!! (we can't *only* go over this on calls)
