# SPDX Legal Team Minutes, August 13, 2020

## Attending
* Mark Baushke
* Vicky Brasseur
* Mike Dolan
* John Horan
* Jim Hutchison
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Paul Madick
* Gary O'Neall
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Kate Stewart
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

Hi all,

Tomorrow’s regularly scheduled legal team call will be a joint call with the tech team to continue the conversation about the licensing fields and consolidation of such for the 3.0 spec.

By way of background or reminder:
Currently, all license-related fields are contained within the main spec, and are specified as different properties on each SPDX artifact type, i.e., package, Filenes and snippet.

For 3.0, licensing information will be broken out from the base spec and put in a separate "licensing" profile. There was a proposal to consolidate the license fields to have common names and meanings, which can then be applied at the package, file and snippet level.

Steve and I drafted a first pass and we began to go through it on yesterday’s joint tech/legal call. We will continue that review tomorrow. The draft has some comments as per the discussion in the document and the meeting minutes have been posted. Please have a look at both and be ready to hit the ground running!

License fields consolidation draft: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k_2tSlFXvW_SbW-I1DcSEoCNBMQJd4FEFIQr6KCJuyU/edit#heading=h.wm4ivu55l9q0

Aug 11th joint call meeting minutes: https://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/Minutes/2020-08-11

## Minutes

* Most comments / edits recorded in shared Google doc for license fields consolidation draft (see above)
* Quick background of where we are, draft to discuss, etc. as per email for meeting agenda
* Discussed whether to add a "Detected License" field, decided to keep "All Licenses Information from Files" for Packages only (perhaps with a different name)
* Discussed Copyright Text field, and whether it is necessary to tie copyright notices to particular concluded licenses where there is more than one license and different copyright holders for each license. For an example look at https://raw.githubusercontent.com/casesandberg/react-color/v2.17.3/docs/build/bundle.js which has Apache, BSD, MIT
