# SPDX Legal Team Minutes, September 24, 2020

## Attending
* Mark Atwood
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* Vicky Brasseur
* John Horan
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Philippe Ombredanne
* Gary O'Neall
* Josh Singer
* Kate Stewart
* Emmanuel Tournier
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

We will resume our joint legal/tech team review of the License Profile draft on the legal call this week (Thursday) and the next tech team call (next Tuesday), as needed.

The draft is at the same link at: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k_2tSlFXvW_SbW-I1DcSEoCNBMQJd4FEFIQr6KCJuyU/edit#heading=h.wm4ivu55l9q0

We left off last time with 3.4 Copyright Text- so we’ll pick up on Thursday at that point and move through the rest!  Feel free to review and comment in the Gdoc in advance as well.

## Minutes

* See comments noted directly in working draft document linked above - discussion
* Discussed Copyright Text and usage in snippets
  * Preference for using the snippet-based approach, considering whether loosening bytes / lines is appropriate
  * Agreed to make Copyright Text field optional and one-or-many
* Discussed File Notice and Attribution Text fields
  * Note on background: when legal team transitioned to XML format (born out of desire to more fully implement matching guildelines, as license files used to be be stored in text file, with spreadsheet for list) - suggestion of using markup to indicate text that must be reproduced ('acknowlegement") was raised. There was support for doing this, but not enough resources - legal team did label in Github some of these licenses, but did not end up implementing the tag. see https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues?q=+label%3A%22requires+acknowledgement%22+ - is this something to revisit or even replace Attribution field?
  * Considering whether Attribution Text field belongs in the spec at all, at least with its current definition?
   * circle back with whoever championed this field in spec - not sure if it was FOSSology or Thomas?
   * original text said it was for text that the license required to be reproduced (which is legal interpretation and not goal of SPDX, changed to be more "fuzzy"
    * is idea of legal team implementing XML tag around "attribution" text that has to be reproduced still discomforting as making a legal interpretation?  this would not reflect where or how, just the actual text says this text (in quotes) needs to be reproduced, so more like reporting a fact
    * would then need a field in SPDX doc to reflect what is in the XML tag? does the spec have to reflect XML tags? the XML tags were not created with that in mind, but to implement the matching guidelines (this falls outside that). having XML tag without field - is that really helpful b/c have to go back to source...
    * Philippe: could get rid of attribution field and clarify notice field that could be used for that (as well as notice) - in spirit of less is more. two fields is a lot for something that may not be used very much
    * Steve leans towards neither or both -- if XML tagging is going to be done, then having a field where the extracted text from XML tag can be placed is worthwhile. or get rid of Attribution field
    * Gary: there are tools that generate atrribution files from info found in source file and heavy interest for open source tools to provide this (whether or not it's easy) - do we want to support that use case in SPDX? or is that outside scope?
    * Philippe: file notice field - remain for detected license notice, then attribution text could be concluded text? (other direction from Philippe's previous idea)
     * but then what is the scope of the field, since current descriptions seem to be different things
  * question to group: what is your view of value of: notice field; attribution field; and idea of attribution XML tag in licenses
      * Mark: i need something for when a license requires the reproduction of certain text -  whether it's done with a tag or field; license notice would go into attribution doc
      * Vicky: re: attribution - no horse in race, but anything that is automatable is good and maybe only one, but if have two alternatives might make things messy down the road. as to notice: who is populating this and where are they getting info? if open source developers, good luck...
      * John: no hands on experience with using these fields - we can report what license says text is required with open /end quote - this was proposal for XML tag, only around exact text. valuable to be able to fill with machine-readable information is useful
      * Mark: one thing that comes to mind is exact attribution and whether that is necessary; tend towards exact, b/c easier to say - copy everything in (b/c this doesn't require a call)
      * Philippe: lots of people who might not have legal experience etc., are involved in creating compliance-related documents; having a place where they can put the whole text and not have to interpret it, is kind of the safest approach

Proposals for next discussion: try not to repeat this call and present proposals to move forward!

1. Collapse fields into one, allow it to be used for multiple purposes
2. Remove the File Notice field; keep the Attribution text field; implement XML tags so that it can be auto-populated
3. Remove both of the fields
4. Keep both fields, clarify the definitions
5. Keep both fields AND do XML tagging

Key question: Should there be a "concluded attribution" type of field, or not? (JL afternote, please no...)

Related question: Are scanners able to identify this text?
Typically, would pick up "too much" -- e.g. would pick up the full license text and reproduce it, even if it's not needed. Also doesn't extract e.g. this part for "advertising" vs. for "distribution of software

Steve and Jilayne to put together a draft proposal for suggestion 1, along with list of other proposals
