# SPDX Legal Team Minutes, November 11, 2021

## Attendees
* John Horan
* Vicky Brasseur
* Paul Madick
* Ariel Patano
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Sebastian Crane
* Warner Losh 🤩
* Neal Gompa

## Notes

* Release coming this weekend
  * Want to sneak stuff in? Now's the time!
* Increasing productivity in between calls?
  * Email summary once a week? can't hurt to give people something specific to look at
  * further discuss Vicky's idea of quarterly working session?

### Presentation by Warner: FreeBSD + SPDX

* Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mRWj7DCiicK57BqD4XzUMSZs51TpUUIYIgI-UcB8XDw/edit?usp=sharing
* Open questions within FreeBSD community
  - How does EU law apply to SPDX? Seems great for US, but others…?
  - Should FreeBSD change its base license?
    - Lots of "corruptions" throughout the years
    - Set things back to rights? Move forward to adopt some of the "corruptions"?
  - What to do with the ancient/legacy code in the source tree?
    - Defunct people/companies/copyright holders…?
    - Remove those, or what?
    - Can't trip over the Fair Dealing aspect of copyright
  - CLA for FreeBSD?
  - How/will the project start adopting SPDX/reuse manifests & include them in releases?

### PR 1346

https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/pull/1346

* Variant of Xerox license, but the variants are small. Are the two essentially equivalent, legally speaking?
  - JH: Yeah, look equivalent
  - PM: From a legal perspective, he agrees, but if you're making a legal call on a license variant then it's 2 licenses
    - Slippery slope here, too
  - _Probably_ meant to be the same but do we make the call on intention in this way?
  - JH: Have a lot of licenses w/conditional tags
    - JL: Yes, but this isn't as generic as those cases
    - discussed various examples, see the [matching guidelines](https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/license-matching-guidelines-and-templates/), section 2.13 make it clear SPDX takes a conservative approach re: what can be replaceable;  the replaceable text is non-substantive
* In this case leaning toward a new license
  - Can have a Note pointing to other license & explaining why are separate
  - SC offers to do the PR for this one
* But the [background issue](https://github.com/racket/swindle/pull/1) says it's merely "simplified"
  - Does that imply it's the same license?
  - Not necessarily: different language could be interpreted differently
  - NG: In Fedora, if diff language ends w/same result/obligations, doesn't get a different tag
  - JL: This is very practical & project can take it on themselves to make the call, but SPDX has a different standard. also ties into machine-readability for license scanning tools
* PM: Company lawyers must trust that SPDX isn't making legal calls on their behalf

Reference in chat from Sebastian: Pt. I Ch. II S. 17(2): https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/48/part/I/chapter/II
