# SPDX Legal Team meeting, September 30, 2021

## Attendees

* John Horan
* Sebastian Crane
* Candice Wright
* Steve Winslow
* Gary O'Neall
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Christina Chen
* VM Brasseur
* Paul Madick
* Anthony Ronda

## Agenda

* Update from Gary re: OSI and FSF integrations
* Continuation of introductions from last meeting
* brainstorming on better stay-on-top of new issues methodology

## Minutes

### Personal introductions

* Steve: Lives in Masachusetts (outside Boston), and works for the Linux Foundation. Will be leaving to join a law firm soon, but will stay involved with SPDX on into the future. Has a programming background as well as a law background, so has been involded in SPDX for a number of years. Does the releases for the License List.
* Vicky: Has a website at https://www.vmbrasseur.com/; lives in Oregon and has a couple of cats who are not attending the meeting today. Started working with SPDX whilst at Juniper Networks, currently at Wipro, primarily on the SPDX Legal Team but doesn't have time to work on the specification itself, so tries to contribute in small ways legal team and now has joined outreach team
* Gary: (SPDX "lifer") Been involved with SPDX for about ten years, contributes as well as using SPDX in a license auditing and consulting company that he started, Source Auditor. Learned via pain of M&A that licensing needs to be to be in order. Mostly on tech calls, loves to write code, and has stuck around b/c of the people too.
* Paul: also been involved with SPDX since early days - was at HP Open Program Office and working with LF through that. He's in Orange County. Now at ERP company for colleges/universities, Zenzibar - day job, not really open source related, but still contributing here!
* Christina: works at JP Morgan, lawyer, joined SPDX b/c works with other tech lawyer who is member of LF. Does some work with open source in terms of checking licenses being used by their engineers.

### OSI and FSF data update - Gary

* license list publisher is tooling that takes our XML files and and turns it into the website. Was cleaning up old issues in that repo - one about FSFisFree flag and OSI-approved flag - we've been maintaining this info and really should come from the source
* OSI - has reinvigorated Github data version of their licenses and aiming to use that to generate their website
  * Gary has changed our tools to pull from there, but ran into some issues. For now it will generate warnings against out data, and eventually use as source of record
  * will have another discussion on that at that point
  * Jilayne gave background on OSI adoption of SPDX identifiers and getting all license ever approved by OSI
  * Partly a chicken-and-egg issue relying just on the OSI repo as part of a new OSI license review process; they would need an SPDX identifier themselves before adding a license, presumably
  * Gary: OSI may be able to leverage some of our data / processes as part of theirs
  * Jilayne: Would OSI consider adopting the SPDX Matching Guidelines as part of their processes? They don't have this concept and it would be helpful for all. Also checking to see if a new licesne they have approved is already on SPDX and thus already has an identifier
  * AFL old licenses were approved but not listed and they don't seem to want to have in data
  * watch https://github.com/OpenSourceOrg/licenses for changes there
  * may also consider having a call with OSI or some kind of regular updates


* FSF:
  * not using GitHub
  * on their side, have a project called SPDX trying to sync with our licenses
  * but, is circular -- they want to use SPDX repo to update _their_ list of what's free
  * Gary spoke with (now-former) FSF website maintainer who updates the FSF licenses page that SPDX scrapes => Gary sent an email and then a followup to licenses@fsf.org
  * interest in SPDX community in having the FSF Y/N list maintained, and in working on the tooling to maintain it
  * Jilayne: currently, we only show the "yes" items (what they do consider free); we don't get into GPL compatibility
  * some question about who at FSF to contact regarding this
  * suggest giving it a little more time, nudge again, see if someone will be picking it up from the FSF's side. If someone non-FSF-related says they'll take it up, will it be long-term maintained and sustained?
* Gary to send overview to spdx-legal next week so we can have background, where we are now and what needs to be done to get this accruate and then maintain it in the public (and make sure SPDX contributors who are interested are aware/join mailing list)
