# SPDX Legal Team meeting, August 19, 2021

## Attendees

* Anthony Ronda
* Ariel Patano
* John Horan
* Paul Madick
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

* meeting roles - license request steward? others?
* website and FAQ updates / outreach team
* Sebastian - template for inclusion principles analysis
* Steve - update on Licensing profile for SPDX 3.0
* look at license list v3.15 issues

## Notes

3.14 release of the License List was pushed since last meeting

### Meeting roles
* Christina as taking minutes
* License request steward - short term, Sebastian good with doing the "welcome" response issues, similar to outreach
  * need to be admin to GItHub to be able to add tags
  * Steve to check into this

### License submissions and links to usage
* on https://tools.spdx.org/app/submit_new_license/ - in rollover msg:
  * recommend putting links to projects other than their own
  * recommend putting links to distro packages if they exist - Debian, Fedora etc.
* being in a distro means:
  * somebody has committed to maintaining the package
  * not necessarily that it's in widespread use
  * often, the package managers will contact first maintainer and then give permission to second maintainer to take control if no response
* Debian: tracker.debian.org
  * popcon => opt-in tracking of installs
* Focus on Fedora

### Website updates
* Updates to Wikipedia in process (not wiki.spdx.org)
* Wordpress site updates: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WBV0f8L_ddUf9P3eUXMoCwQJiHSckWNA1ykNil8JxGY/edit
* static site updates possible down the road

### License profile update for 3.0

* Steve outlined background of SPDX 3.0 becoming more modular to facilitate further use-cases. Current draft of 3.0 licensing profile is in GitHub; Steve will rewrite to match 3.0 specification format and share in the next few weeks.

### License List

* #1273 - Copyfree Open Innovation License: License is free/open and fufills other criteria. Some present had concerns about the granularity of versioning by the license steward; Steve to send GitHub reply to explain SPDX's policy on versioning. No objections to adding to the License List.

### Parking lot
* Sebastian's license inclusion principles template responder - https://cryptpad.fr/code/#/2/code/view/6GBlA8J83897McFvsxmhQoXye9e6wpryts0mjI90xag/

* Sebastian - suggestion for license stewards to apply to the OSI for licenses that are intended to be open source?
