# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, 2021-09-16

## Attendees

* Jilayne Lovejoy - been with the SPDX project since the beginning by way of employer (OpenLogic) who had a big interest and influential in beginning. Stayed with it through various jobs and non-working time... and still here. Lots of "tribal knowledge" and really enjoy the people!
* John Horan - "recovering" lawyer, working as s/w developer and codebase auditor at nexB in Bay area. Has worked for several large US law firms, including some time in Saudi Arabia.
* Sebastian Crane - based in Britain, was volunteering for audits on FSF free software list and came to SPDX for licensing to understand that better. Now participating in all the aspects! So much can be done with a bill of materials! Contributes on own time
* Warner Losh - on FreeBSD core team; want to Integrate SPDX identifiers in FreeBSD so here in relation to that. Located in Colorado
* Anthony Ronda - developer for insurance company based in CT, but he's in NJ. Not a industry on the forefront of open tech, but he also has hobby of gaming. License created by sub of Hasbro called Open Gaming License, which made him fascinted with commercial activity surrounding that. Initial interest was getting that added to SPDX and has been getting to know SPDX "on his lunch hour". Interested in process for SPDX license/list. Would like to see gaming more open and respectful, so using open source licenses to that end
* Candice Wright - project manager at Microsoft helping with processes related to open source, works on Clearly Defined project, which led to interest in SPDX and "what makes a license". We also met Daisy, a sweet two year-old). Located north of Seattle area.
* Ariel Patano - business program manager for open source/standard legal team at Microsoft, works on Clearly Defined also, which uses SPDX identifiers.

## Notes

* Jilayne - we should occasionally introduce ourselves, because things change and new people come in to the community - see above!
* please let us know as your info changes/updates and we'll also have others do same as we go forward to add to above!
* Sebatian - plug for SPDX IRC channel: #spdx on https://web.libera.chat/#spdx
* update on Fedora spec file license info: policy of using SPDX identifiers still needs to be formally proposed and accepted, so hold on recruitment b/c this needs to happen first
  * see compare spreadsheet https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fi5SVzyCAL0UDravvkS6Us4lFwRiQy-l3qTUEkY92U0/edit#gid=243613621 - something SPDX can do in meantime
* update on FreeBSD from Warner: adding SPDX identifiers in source files in base system (like kernel), and using SPDX identifiers in the port system - in meta files (.mk files), encode what license is there, here switched from using own list of identifiers to using SPDX identifiers - allows rules based on license during build
* organization of FreeBSD: 3 parts: documentation tree, base system (os and libraries), port system (packages third party utilities to be part of FreeBSD)
* Warner not sure if a full compare has been done as b/w FreeBSD identifiers and SPDX?
* example of
* note: FreeBSD doesn't use package "spec" file type thing like Fedora does
* Warner not sure what current status is as he's been out, but will get that and give an update at next call:)

* Items for 3.15 release
