# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, April 15, 2021

## Attendees
* Christina Chen
* Sebastian Crane
* Mike Dolan
* John Horan
* Warner Losh
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Paul Madick
* Emmanuel Tournier
* Jim Vitrano
* Steve Winslow
* Candice Wright

## Agenda

For today's call, we will be reviewing the issues currently tagged for 3.13, available at https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A3.13

In particular we will focus on the items at the link above that are tagged as "new license/exception request". Note that the end of April will be the 3.13 release (and I don't expect we will push the release date out).

## Minutes
* Pre-discussion:
  * Whoever suggests a new license should be responsible for creating the XML and txt files if the license is accepted. This task can be written into the workflow, so until those files are created, the license will not be included. So after a license is apporved, tag the original requestor, ask them to create the XML and text files within two weeks so the license can be included in the 3.13 release. Refer the original requestor to the following link: https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/blob/master/DOCS/new-license-workflow.md.
  * Can use the SPDX tools to create the XML files, where you can do all of the editing and then click 'validate' (tools.spdx.org). Steve has had more luck writing directly in text editors, but the tool can be linked as a second option.
  * Jilayne will update the July and October soon to be versions (?).
  * Emmanuel will respond to 1210.

* #1109: Common Documentation License
  * Very old documentation license from Apple; found some evidence of its use but not much. This was listed in Fedora which is supportive of adding this license since it's 'evidence of use' as stipulated in the inclusion factors. **Approved**; ask the original poster to create the XML/txt file. (Sebastian) This license has been shown to be a free license by the Free Software Foundation (?). https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html#ACDL

* #1110: Open Publication License (doc license)
  * We previously discussed this and agreed to add the license, but there was one outstanding issue: Section VI - License Options permits the user to add certain phrases to trigger certain provisions in the license (like the Open Font License). Open question: do we add multiple IDs to this license? Steve suggests first adding this as a single license, and if people later want to use the License Options, they can request the addition. There was some naming confusion as there is an Open Content License that is also identified as OPL. Decision made to ignore the Open Content License until someone actually requests it.

* #1121: Nmap Public Source License v0.92
  * Recent variation of the Nmap license, the origianl of which was a GPL with some modified terms. Fedora does not consider this new one to be free, which may weigh against inclusion. There was also confusion whether this should go on the exceptions or the license list. Since this request (October 2020), Nmap has updated to a 0.93 version.

* #1168: Viratrace Public Source License
  * Steve doesn't think it should be included - the license is very specific to Viratrace's programs, plus it has odd provisions like automatic grantbacks. Jilayne responding to their comment about Watcom. **Denied**.

* #1169: ICU License
  * Similar to the Unicode licenses but contains some differences. Steve has seen this in the wild before.
  * Jilayne to do more research.

* #1171: CC Attribution 2.5 Australia version.
  * (SPDX list already contains most of the standard Creative Commons licenses. Since then, if someone requests to add a translated version and can point to an instance of it being used in the wild, it will be added) This is being used in Atlassian. **Approved**, so requestor will create the XML.

* Quickly ran through some discussions about the remaining licenses for 3.13. Request for everyone to comment: #1191, and 1228:
  * https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1191
  * https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1228
