# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, April 14, 2022

## Attendees

* VM Brasseur
* Sebastian Crane
* John Horan
* Ria Schalnat
* Steve Winslow
* Paul Madick
* Brad Goldring
* Warner Losh
* Candice Wright
* Karsten Klein

## Agenda

* continue reviewing open issues for 3.17, target release end of month

## Notes

* Detailed discussions on:
  * #1429 (LZMA SDK licenses): https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1429
    * agreed on adding substance of license statement, but not fully aligned on which version to use. Hesitant to use replaceable text to make optional all of the differences between the versions.
    * Steve to reach out to project / mailing list to ask if there's a single version that they view as "the license", probably the one actually in the distro rather than on their website
    * also noted the similar language to Unlicense, but missing the disclaimers at the end so wouldn't be a match to that
  * #1432 (MS-LPL): https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1432
    * discussed lines and boundaries for source available licenses, significant amount of substantial historical use shown here
    * some questions around whether this is appearing in practice for e.g. Conan package manager, as mentioned by submitter; asked question to submitter for clarification. If so, then would mark this as accepted
  * #1442 (GStreamer exceptions): https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1442
    * agreed with Sebastian's inclusion principles writeup
    * agreed to add each of the two exceptions as separate identifiers, one as historical (2005 / Totem) and the other with replaceable templated text
    * Sebastian to ask question to submitter re: is the steward committed to versioning if they make future changes to the text

* License inclusion principles:
  * Karsten raised question about whether these meet the needs for folks who are just looking for a stable identifier for arbitrary text
  * Steve to circle back in a future meeting with more details about the license namespaces proposal and how it could help with this

## Future topics

* License namespaces - Steve to present once proposal is dusted off and readied for 2.3
