# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, June 22, 2023

## Attendees

* Mark Atwood
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Richard Fontana
* Brad Goldring
* Paul Madick

## Agenda and Notes

* 3.21  went out on Sunday with a bunch of new licenses again! It was almost two months late. Next release is due to go out end of July - should we push that to end of August?
  * Mark pointed out trends in release chronic lateness v. freight train approach. Suggest we should stick to timing no matter what. In contrast, they look at current repo and don't pay much attention to release
  * Jilayne: consider that release is done by Steve and thus subject to Steve's schedule. We should have back-up person, ideally. See https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/blob/main/DOCS/release-process.md
  * Paul: since close to release date for this quarter and were late, and given it's summer, should we just say we'll do next release in early October (skip July), unless there is a burning need?
  * everyone agreed this seems like a good idea - put out on mailing list
  * Mark to read through release notes to see if he could help

* discussed a couple open issues:
  * https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1773 
  * https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1925 
      
* Now that the spec will have the ability to make a custom `AdditionRef-` for something that is not on the SPDX License List of exception but is intended to represent additional language which is meant to be added to a License, but which is not itself a standalone License. - should we close out the additional patent grant issues as being able to use this (instead of adding to the exception list)?
      
* If there's time, I'd also like to touch on the public domain dedication thread that I started https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-legal/topic/public_domain_dedication/98776908  To be clear, any of the major changes discussed in the thread would require a Change Proposal, but I'm not sure myself as to best approach, so wanted to get some input from the community first.
