# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, July 27, 2023

## Attendees

* Jimmy Ahlberg
* Richard Fontana
* Brad Goldring
* Chris Herbst
* Chris Hibbard
* Maximilian Huber
* Karsten Klein
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Paul Madick
* Gary O'Neall
* Ria Schalnat
* Steve Winslow
* Alexios Zavras

## Agenda and Notes

### Discuss Change Proposal for DataLicense

* Background documents:
  * Email to list: https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-legal/message/3433
  * Current spec with CC0-1.0 requirement: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/document-creation-information/#62-data-license-field
  * Original rationale document: https://wiki.spdx.org/images/SPDX-TR-2014-1.v1.1.pdf
  * Change proposal #8: https://github.com/spdx/change-proposal/issues/8

* Discussion:
  * Ria - background:
    * Issue with DataLicense mandating CC0-1.0: potential among recipients to be confused. Different legal regimes in various jurisdictions; terminology of "DataLicense" may confuse folks as to what terms may apply to SPDX SBOMs
    * Original CC0-1.0 requirement - focus on maximizing availability was well-chosen. But potentially conflicts with other requirements that may be mandated by governments / regulators, where may implicate trade secrets, confidentiality, etc.
    * Today, if choosing anything besides CC0-1.0, SBOM will fail validation.
    * Goal is to provide SPDX SBOM drafters to be able to have freedom to apply terms of their choice. SPDX as a project can still recommend using CC0-1.0
  * Chris Hibbard - some discussion about e.g. putting CC0-1.0 on and adding a separate NDA. Seems like a risk re: different people seeing different parts of it and misunderstanding what terms apply
  * Concepts of data licensing, what copyright does and doesn't actually protect, aren't necessarily appreciated by everyone (especially non-attorneys). People or tooling might inadvertently not "consume" the applicable terms if they just see CC0-1.0 with a separate rider that can't be denoted in the DataLicense field
  * Jilayne:
    * "legal knowledge factor" is one of the key points
    * Always a challenge - not everything is copyrightable. Sometimes easier to just assume it is and grant a license. Downside is that sometimes people put licenses on things that don't need a license.
    * Text in DataLicense is specific to "SPDX-Metadata", e.g. free text in comments. The rest would just be facts and not copyrightable (at least under US law). To the extent that places like Europe _might_ have applicable data rights, intent is for CC0-1.0 to mitigate those.
    * Ability to still have confidentiality: there's nothing in CC0-1.0 that conflicts, or creates an incompatibility issue, if also having an NDA.
    * That said, regardless of how lawyers view that, still a question about how others (non-lawyers and/or tooling) will consume and understand it
    * Feels like the key issue, putting aside e.g. whether there is licensable content, is: want to signal to any recipients whether or not it's okay to share it. Putting aside the DataLicense field, could there be a toggleable "Shareable?" yes/no field?
  * Karsten:
    * Question about data license is separate from terms of use and how the recipient is intended to use it. This is really more about "terms of use" - how can you use this SBOM?
    * Steve: Also odd to see 6.2 appearing to impose terms of use on users of the SPDX spec itself by way of wording, "By using the SPDX specification, or any portion hereof, you hereby agree that any copyright rights (as determined by your jurisdiction) in any SPDX-Metadata, ..."
  * Alexios:
    * From perspective as an SPDX contributor, want to be clear what's being requested here - changing DataLicense for specification v2, v3, ...?
    * For v2, this was a property on SPDX Documents as a whole. For v3, DataLicense is a property on every single "line"
  * Ria: Not entirely familiar with what needs to change, but expect it would require an update to SPDX 3.0 model, as well as to validators
  * Steve: 2 separate questions - what would it mean for 3.0 and going forward; and what would it mean for 2.x, but can't retroactively change previous specs
    * Jilayne: Are there any plans to have a 2.4 release? Should we only be talking about this re: 3.0, as we already have 3.0 release candidate?
    * Gary: agree, this would be for 3.0
  * Alexios: yes, release candidate for 3.0 is out, and preparing the next one. Makes sense for these changes to be in 3.0. But, business needs for users creating SPDX documents now could be a requirement for current users. Should we consider 2.4 with only this change?
  * Ria: can deal with SPDX validation failing in the short term, as long as there's a future plan to fix it within a time frame
  * Jilayne: can't really change the current validator tool for 2.3 to pass this, since the released 2.3 spec mandates CC0-1.0. Interim solution could be, if creating SPDX files under 2.3 and whatever change we decide on happens for 3.0, then might need to educate users e.g. via a comment. 
  * Chris Hibbard: downloadable validation tool final? Gary: it's maintained. Chris: possibility to add a comment flagging that e.g. "corresponds to spec, but might change in the future?" Gary - yes, treat as a warning essentially, depending on where we land. Also: it's also easy to add a command-line flag to the validator "--ignore-data-license"
  * Steve: (1) would prefer to have expressions used like e.g. CC0-1.0 AND LicenseRef-My-Usage-Terms, if that's required; and (2) would prefer to leave it to SPDX data creators / publishers to decide for themselves; not aware of other data format specifications that mandate data files to use a particular license
  * Jilayne: could end up with someone putting something different, creating a tangled mess

* Jilayne: What if we just remove this field altogether?
  * original intent was tied to where things were at that point in time; also setting the stage for how these documents would be shared
  * if we remove the field entirely, does that take care of it? What bad things could happen?
  * In 2010, concern was about people not sharing the documents. If there's an impetus to share (or not share) the documents when you can, it's up to the creator to put something in the document
  * Paul - historical comments:
    * Thought was originally always that people could use these internally without them going outside of their organization. E.g. might not want their rationale for choosing a particular license to be challenged.
    * Some EU counterparts felt that, if SPDX documents got into the wild, should be usable without concern about it.
  * Jilayne: if there's no license on it at all, and the most clearly copyrightable stuff is whatever is written in the comments field. Someone puts "creative" comments into a document, and someone else passes it along. Will the original drafter really bring a copyright infringement suit?
  * Risk of letting the SPDX creator put whatever they want in that field, especially when combining it with the state that field is in for 3.0, sounds extremely challenging in practice and sounds like it would create friction (also more work for document creators). Currently, not something you have to think about, essentially just gets filled in. Having to make that decision across data points is a massive burden.
  * Ria: Also imposes risk of e.g. tooling systems stripping out or not recognizing terms of use / NDA being attached to it.
  * Karsten: suggested separate classifications for NDA levels, e.g. public, internal, confidential, secret
  * Steve / Jilayne: not in favor of SPDX as a project trying to define this
* Jilayne: If intending to remove this field, would be good to get EU-trained lawyers' input as well. Maybe goal of sharing SPDX documents can be done in other ways besides mandating CC0
* Alexios: when people raise issues not wanting to share SBOMs under CC0, the info they typically want to protect is "software X contains component Y." Might be facts / non-copyrightable. Not wanting to protect e.g. OpenSSL is downloadable from openssl.org, or comments, etc.
* Chris Hibbard: not about intending to e.g. sell data in SBOMs. More about having products that are 95% open source; might also add details about services to call, etc. Might want to limit access to that info
* Steve: summary - change proposal noted making the field more flexible to use any SPDX id or NONE or NOASSERTION; but now leaning towards option of getting rid of it altogether - for latter, need to confer with EU lawyers and put out on mailing list. What is inclination for people on this call?
  * straw poll:
    * 3 in favor of keeping DataLicense but opening it to permit any license expression
    * 5 in favor of removing DataLicense altogether
    * 0 in favor of keeping as-is and requiring CC0-1.0

* Max: Removing the field means that there isn't a way to designate the license in a standardized way

* Gary: Will there be an issue when a tool ingests an SPDX 2.3 document with "DataLicense: CC0-1.0", and drops that info when converting it to 3.0?
* Steve: don't see this as a license compliance issue, but would be losing that information

## Next actions

* Steve to upload minutes to meetings repo
* Steve to send details of current discussion and considered options to the mailing lists
* Jilayne to contact EU legal list for their input
* Timing: next release of SPDX spec will be in a week and a half, ideally would have this solution incorporated by then

