# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, Sept. 28, 2023

## Attendees

* Shalini Batra
* Richard Fontana
* Brad Goldring
* Chris Hibbard
* Maximilian Huber
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Madhuri Padmanabhan
* Ria Schalnat
* David Shields
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda and Notes

### Upcoming release

* 3.22 will be getting pushed out in the next week
* Could do mini one end of November
* Get back on regular schedule end of January

### Review final issues / PRs prior to 3.22 release

* #2055: split out one example into a separate issue (#2128); adding as a separate exception
* #2100: agreed that this should be a separate license from Spencer- other IDs; also discussed clarifying when markup gets inserted generally
* #2142: "prior written" vs. "written prior", fine to handle via markup
* #2105: differences in ordering of text ("COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE" vs. "NOTICE TO USER" paragraph) together with license steward preference for new ID => suggest going with separate ID. Main question is whether Unicode can confirm the text won't change no matter what, if we're assigning the ID and name now (prior to OSI sign-off).
* #1992: walked through license inclusion principles analysis, agreed that although we don't think this meets the OSD (factor 1), it likely meets factors 2-5 and therefore agreed to add

## Future topics

* Revisit and consider tightening up license inclusion principles
