## Attendance

  - Tom Incorvia
  - Phil Odence
  - Paul Madick
  - Alan Tse
  - Tom Vidal
  - Mark Gisi

## Agenda

**1) Revised schedule for 2.0 update** - SPDX Core Team met and
discussed the schedule for 2.0: proposed idea is to do a release
candidate of 2.0 by mid-November, with the idea of getting people to
start using it, testing, etc. and official release for Collab Summit in
Feb. This way, by the time of the official release, we can present test
case examples and have it more vetted since it's a big change. Legal
Team need to sort out: what does a pre-release mean for license list
what has to be done by Nov 15? What is not mandatory?

  - Notes: pre-release would be helpful to have license expression
    syntax, exception list, skinny down version of license list and
    check with Gary. (Paul)
  - Mark: need to define some things in the spec. (define once and use
    everywhere: none and no assertion). Mark Gisi drafting definition
    section and will circulate to legal group.

**Tasks for 2.0:**

**a) license expression syntax and accompanying FAQs (Mark)** - in
progress. Watch mailing list for latest update in the next week and
comment there 8 Mark to send out current draft of the FAQ

**b) go over example for license expression syntax on wiki page**:
<http://wiki.spdx.org/view/FileNoticeExamples>

  - with release, these should be looked at more closely and make sure
    there are no inconsistencies, errors, etc. (TO BE DONE STILL)

**c) remove deprecated licenses from list (Jilayne)** - need to discuss
if and how to add note as such in Notes field?

  - put an asterisk, the note should say what version was deprecated,
    using lines at bottom of license list.

**d) add exceptions list to license list (Jilayne)** - still need to
finalize list of initial exceptions; last we left off, we were going to
only stick to the ones we had already on the list.
<https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AmVnI0dGKEo1dDF0ajVveUtRMGFseVVjWS1zV2tCNFE&usp=drive_web#gid=0>

  - list seems accurate as per those marked with "2.0"

**e) finish matching guidelines template work (Jilayne, Daniel)** -
still need feedback on items in \#2, that is, whether a template is
needed (see list below)

**f) what to do about Standard Header field** - were going to possibly
deprecate, but need to float idea to all SPDX mailing list to assess
impact of doing do - NEED SOMEONE TO TAKE LEAD ON THIS\!\!

  - Paul to send out note to tech team and legal team only.

**g) update website as per changes to license list, etc.** - Paul has
made first pass on what might need to be changed - this can probably be
done after Nov 15th

**h) coordinate with Gary on how exceptions list will be displayed and
other changes to HTML pages** on spdx.org/licenses (Jilayne & Gary)

**2) License Matching Guidelines - do these licenses need templates?**

  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/PHP-3.0> - templatize names? stuff at end?
  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/PHP-3.01> - templatize names? stuff at
    end?
  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/RHeCos-1.1> - review for template need?
  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/RPL-1.1> - review for template? (preamble)
  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/RPL-1.5> - review for template? (preamble)
  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/RSCPL> - template needed?
  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/SGI-B-1.0> - template needed?
  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/SGI-B-1.1> - template needed?
  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/SISSL> - template needed?
  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/SISSL-1.2> - template needed?
  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/SPL-1.0> - template needed?
  - \--\> no for all: No variants known in wild, no template

<!-- end list -->

  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/WXwindows> - template? isn’t this really a
    GPL exception? move to exception list?
  - \--\> Notes: should be moved to exception list.

<!-- end list -->

  - General notes: should we ask others on SPDX license list regarding
    variants for requests. Template request mechanism. Maybe ask tool
    team what they think makes sense in regards to addt’l templates.

**3) MPL-2.0 - how do we deal with the two variations in light of the
new license expression syntax?** see: <http://spdx.org/licenses/MPL-2.0>
and <http://spdx.org/licenses/MPL-2.0-no-copyleft-exception>

  - legal team proposes that “no copyleft exception” should be in
    exception list and deprecate license. How do we deal with GPL v3
    section 7 addt’l permissions, we be should be consistent.

**4) Zimbra License issue**: Zimbra 1.3 is on SPDX list -
<http://spdx.org/licenses/Zimbra-1.3> This license uses “VMWare”
throughout and states in the beginning: "VMVMware, Inc., a Delaware
corporation having its principal place of business at 3401 Hillview
Avenue, Palo Alto, California 94304 ("VMware”)” and at the end: "All
disputes arising out of this Agreement involving VMware or any of its
subsidiaries shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the federal or
state courts of northern California, with venue lying in Santa Clara
County, California.”

The SPDX License List also lists for another url:
<http://www.zimbra.com/license/zimbra-public-license-1-3.html> However,
this (now) simply redirects to version 1.4 link:
<http://www.zimbra.com/legal/zimbra-public-license-1-4>

A merge-and-compare of version 1.3 and version 1.4 at this link, shows
that it is the same license except: - “VMWare” is replace with “Zimbra”
throughout; - VMWare is a Texas Corporation, as stated in the beginning
of the license; and - at the end of the license, it states instead:
"Zimbra 1.4 (not on SPDX list) - Zimbra, Texas Corporation, and "All
disputes arising out of this Agreement involving Zimbra or any of its
parents or subsidiaries shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the
federal or state courts of Northern Texas, with venue lying in Dallas
County, Texas."

What to do????

  - For old link, we should remove it for 1.3. And for 1.4 we should add
    it to the LL since changes are substantive.

**5) What to do about this BSD-3-Clause variation**:
<https://www.codeaurora.org/cgit/quic/la/kernel/lk/plain/app/aboot/aboot.c?h=master>
Which has “...FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE
DISCLAIMED.” in the disclaimer, where the usual language omits “AND
NON-INFRINGEMENT”

  - We should talk to Karen C. and see if LF is going to continue using
    this. We prefer not to add and make it a license ref.

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
