## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Dennis Clark
  - Mary Hardy
  - Zac White

## Agenda

**1) Bzip2 license request** – accepted; will be added as of next
release of license list

**2) Collab Summit**

Who's going?

  - Dennis & Jilayne will be there; Zac will probably be there; Mary is
    checking

Items for Collab Summit face-to-face legal meeting:

1.  License expression discussion – we provided a quick update from the
    initial call discussing this topic, which was run by Mark Gisi and
    included a sub-group of people who had expressed interest. It was a
    good discussion and the beginning of a proposal began to take shape.
    For Collab Summit, we aim to have a more complete straw man to be
    able to review and discuss during the face-to-face, with the goal of
    coming to a conclusion/decision at that time as to how to proceed.
    Consequently, the next release of the license list will wait until
    that discussion is completed.
2.  Will try to have an hour for legal team stuff (for finishing up
    Fedora list or template issues or both) but if not enough time, all
    agreed that the priority is the license expression discussion

**3) Fedora list** We need to move more quickly on this. not efficient
(and stalls other agenda items) if we have to rely on bi-weekly
meetings. How can we speed up the process and where are we currently?

  - Prefer to do via email but only getting participation from 2-3
    people
  - 20 that have comments on them, but no decision
  - 100 more to review
  - Zac to send email explaining; giving it a deadline by Collab Summit
    (probably an aggressive schedule, but need to drive forward)
  - Need others to respond to Zac’s email to seed the conversation via
    email

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
