## Attendees

  - Paul Madick
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Mark Gisi
  - Tom Vidal

## Agenda

1\) discussed standard header field - had previously discussed removing
this field, but the plan now is to leave it for the pre-release
candidates, and then have further discussion in January when we have
more feedback as to how everything is working. at that point, may
consider have a separate list for license headers, if feasible.

2\) matching guidelines templates - went over various licenses with
questions as to what to mark-up, if anything

3\) decided on extra legal call for Monday, Nov 24 due to the next call
falling on Thanksgiving

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
