## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Mark Gisi
  - Paul Madick
  - Dennis Clark

## Agenda

**1) Collab Summit agenda** - discussed time allotted on Friday for
License Expression Discussion; hoping to have time at end of that
allotment for any outstanding Fedora issues

**2) Fedora list** - not enough people on call to really go through
list, but made plan of attack:

  - Paul, Dennis, and Jilayne to continue with review with aim to "knock
    off" easy one to be added and distill down to those that need some
    discussion, which we will either have at Collab Summit or the legal
    call the week after. THIS DOES NOT MEAN EVERYONE ELSE IS OFF THE
    HOOK\!\! PLEASE ADD YOUR COMMENTS\!\!

See:
<https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AmVnI0dGKEo1dENVVHFNeG5hQjAyYjQ3bm1VVUdjOFE#gid=1>

  - Jilayne to contact Tom Calloway to see if he'll be at Collab Summit
    to check in about process, etc.

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
