## Attendees

  - Dennis Clark
  - Alan Tse
  - Mark Gisi
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Paul Madick
  - Tom Vidal

## AGENDA

NOTE: there seems to be some confusion regarding the proper dial-in
number for the calls. Please be sure to use the one posted on the wiki,
here: <http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team>

NOTE2: the next call is Dec 11th, at the usual time and day. We will
decide then if we need another call before the end of the year to
replace the one that would otherwise fall on Christmas day.

**1) New license requests:**

  -   
    a) FTLK - FTLK (LGPL-2.0 with FTLK exception), requested by Sam
    Ellis. As noted on the last call (and barring any objections from
    the Tech Team), we decided to go with all the exceptions marked as
    “2.0” on the exception list for the pre-release in December (which
    represents the exceptions currently on the License List) and then
    add the ones marked as “2.1” for the official release in February.
    FTLK is on the exception list, but noted for a later release. Move
    up for this release?? - to be included with next release, not
    pre-release. discussed and decided to keep with idea of only
    including current exceptions for pre-release, with others to add
    once some testing has been done (This means FTLK and Libtool will
    not be on pre-release list)

<!-- end list -->

  -   
    b) Intel Microcode, requested by Simon Glass. See original email for
    more info:
    <http://article.gmane.org/gmane.comp.licenses.spdx.legal/983/match=intel>
    - this is not open source, it's a binary, freeware-type licenses. So
    will not add, but keep in licenses-in-considerations in case this
    delineation is relaxed in the future.

<!-- end list -->

  -   
    c) SGI GLX Public License, requested by Sam Ellis. This license is
    on the Fedora “bad” list. See
    <http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Licensing/GLX_Public_License> This
    license is referenced in recent releases of Oracle’s Java 8
    software, for example, see Oracle’s third-party IP disclosure, see:
    <http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/thirdpartylicensereadme-java8-2168078.txt>
    and search for the term ‘GLX’. - has some export clauses, which may
    be why Fedora considers non-free, but determined it is close enough,
    as other main terms are open source. name: GLX Public License v1.0,
    short identifier: GL-1.0 - no template needed

**2) finish matching guidelines template work**

  -   
    a) NASA Open Source Agreement, 1.3
    -http://spdx.org/licenses/NASA-1.3 has anyone seen this license
    filled in? Not sure how to do mark-up for this one. - ask Daniel if
    he can just markup blanks. Alan found an example, see:
    <http://worldwind.arc.nasa.gov/worldwind-nosa-1.3.html>

**3) Other license issues:**

  -   
    a) Mozilla Public License v2 (MPL-2.0 &
    MPL-2.0-no-copyleft-exception) <http://spdx.org/licenses/MPL-2.0> &
    <http://spdx.org/licenses/MPL-2.0-no-copyleft-exception> - how to
    deal with for 2.0? leave as is, as two line items on license list
    for now. this text feeds into issue with headers and exception (but
    it's not really an exception). too many moving parts changing right
    now.

<!-- end list -->

  -   
    b) BSD with attribution (BSD-3-Clause-Attribution)
    <http://spdx.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause-Attribution> - change full
    name to: BSD Acknowledgement and short identifier:
    BSD-Acknowledgement ? (also see:
    <http://spdx.org/licenses/zlib-acknowledgement>) - Is is confusing
    to have the word “with” in the full name? Should the “BSD with
    attribution” license short identifier really have “BSD-3-Clause …”
    as part of short identifier, when it’s really 4 clauses (same 3
    clauses, plus an additional acknowledgment clause (or more like
    Apache 1.1 with one clause removed)?

\- is having "with" in a full name of a license confusing (in light of
license expression operator, 'WITH') keeping in mind that full names are
not used with operators, only short identifiers - it's fine, but could
change "with" to "plus" in full name and that might be better for both
the BSD and zlib variations, but leave short identifier because not
worth changing

  -   
    c) What to do about this BSD-3-Clause variation:
    <https://www.codeaurora.org/cgit/quic/la/kernel/lk/plain/app/aboot/aboot.c?h=master>
    Which has “...FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT
    ARE DISCLAIMED.” in the disclaimer, where the usual language omits
    “AND NON-INFRINGEMENT” - Discussed previously and thought it
    better to not add and let it be a license ref, but wanted to get
    feedback from LF on how much it’s used. - no one from LF on call,
    skipped item

**4) remove deprecated licenses from list** (Jilayne) - decided to move
to a separate sheet. have begun work. need to draft some explanation
text for website. Do we want these listed on website as list under main
table on same page, or separate page?? - put on same page, they are/were
licenses, and still legitimate to use; don't worry about people getting
confused with it being a long page. need to check with Gary that this
(if too technically difficult to do - check with Gary - then will go
back to separate page idea) - Dennis drafted some text for defining
"deprecation" to be included at the top of the list of deprecated
licenses, ***please review here and email feedback***:

*Release 2.0 of the SPDX Specification introduces license expression
syntax that supports the ability to identify common variations on
standard licenses without the need to define each potential variation as
a distinct license on the SPDX License List. This new syntax supports
the ability to use a simple “+” operator after a license short
identifier to indicate “or later version” (e.g. GPL-2.0+), and it also
supports the ability to declare a standard license exception using the
“WITH” operator (e.g. GPL-2.0+ WITH Autoconf-exception-2.0). SPDX has
defined a list of standard License Exceptions to use after the “WITH”
operator. A number of the standard License Exceptions were formerly
included in the standard SPDX License List, but they have been
deprecated as licenses, and correct usage employs the new license
expression syntax. Note that for compatibility, the URL to each
deprecated license still exists, but links to those deprecated licenses
have been removed from the standard License List in order to clarify the
currently recommended syntax.*

**5) license expression syntax FAQs** (Mark) - please review:
<http://wiki.spdx.org/view/LicenseExpressionFAQ> - ***please review and
email feedback***

**6) examples for license expression syntax** on wiki page:
<http://wiki.spdx.org/view/FileNoticeExamples> - ***please review and
email feedback***

**7) add exceptions list to license list** (Jilayne) - have added them,
separate sheet in spreadsheet. will display as separate page on website
with link from main licenses page and explanatory text at top, etc.

**8) update website as per changes to license list**, etc. - Paul has
made first pass on what might need to be changed - TBD for Dec 18th time
frame
