# SPDX Asia Meeting 2024-01-08

## Attendees
* Yoshiyuki Ito
* HIro Fukuchi
* Norio Kobota
*Takashi Ninjouji
* Karen Bennet
* Gary O'Neal

## Agenda
* LITE PR
* FOSDEM
* OSS NA CFP

## Notes
* Gary Confirmed LITE PR;  model is updated;  just Annex is left 
* Norio Kobota making a PR to Examples repo.    Will also be submitting to CFP.
* Hiro Fukuchi: Strategic roadmap for specification adoption;  specification more complex.   Many items are in parallel.   Can we select a core part of the specification as strategic roadmap,  choosing next steps, so we're moving forward to the specification.   Lite profile is simple and understandable for everyone,  then, adding in other things like software & data profile, and others. 
* Yoshiyuki Ito: Roadmap, discussed specification file, and additional annex.   Schedule for them?
   * Gary: Have been working through the existing Annexes with Alexios.  Have discussed after -rc2 release.  Need to decide what to do with tag value format.   Planning discussion in FOSDEM,  and then close on Tag:Value in 3 to 4 weeks, then can draft Annext for lite profile.
   * Ito-san,  sent email to Kate for invitation for FOSDEM,  Kate to follow up. 
* Shane interested export control.   Kate pointed out that Matthew has started up https://lists.spdx.org/g/spdx-operations which will cover export control related topics, among others. 
* Karen - as we look forward to 3.1 in in LITE profile, so we capture in any LLMs information?   Topic to be thought about for future meetings. 
* Shane - AI compliance starting up https://lists.openchainproject.org/g/ai/topics - join if interested. 
* Reminder CFP is open https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/program/cfp/ until next week,  lots of relevant tracks. 


## Next SPDX Tech Team Meeting 
* 2024-01-16
