# SPDX FuSa Group Meeting - August 12, 2022

## Attendees
* Artem Mygaiev
* Kate Stewart
* Nicole Pappler

## Agenda
* Infrastructure setup
* Meeting host next week

## Notes
* Discussed infrastructure and set up calendar invite
* SPDX V2.3 tagged last night,  release publication in process.
* Artem continuing to working through  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nGmvS8dPRJ0cKu24cIcjADJgfdUDTZekXETEAH-gdc4/edit#gid=449007315 , targeting for questions next week. 
* Nicole will host next week (Kate on vacation) discuss initial questions from Artem & 12207
* Discussion of 12207 in 2 weeks.
* Discussed adding in Product Item as a part of table.
* Discussed adding in 12207 terminology to working spreadsheet.
* Terminology:  Start 12207,  then 61508 tailoring,  then automotive/rail/...    DO178 may need separte mapping. 
* Provide ref to standards formal definitions, but share somewhere publicly the "plain english" definitions as well 
  
* Xen is using MISRA 33 rules.   Thinking of tooling.   Access, without recurring tools won't work.  
   * Can cppcheck be extended?  False neg/positive and compare with other tools.   
   * Possible collaboration with Zephyr? 
   
* Goals:
    * is to be able to map ELISA "Reference System" with all artifacts required for a safety case.
    * ensure SPDX 3.0 has necessary fields to enable above description.

## Outstanding AIs
   * AI:  Artem to look up prior analysis between 61508 and 12207 and share it for further discussion. 
   * AI:  Kate & Nicole to do homework before next meeting on 12207
   * AI: Artem to review working document and mark questions.
