# SPDX FuSa Team Meeting 2025-02-20

## Attendees
- Steven Carbno
- Alfred Strauch
- Nicole Pappler
- Chuck Wolber
- Kate Stewart


## Agenda
* new central FuSa slide deck for modelling work: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fMKdoSg7sg-E7ICgIlY6JIdoKTwxdGGHnM6DSH861bc/edit?usp=sharing
* do we agree on the classes we need and their heritage?
* what do the classes need addtionally to Element, Artifact etc.?
* what things need to be an enum, what can be a string 
* Homework results: *Tier 1 requirement: I want a way to pass a written note through the air in class.

## Notes
 - Alfred proposes that Evidence, Proof (the evidence is correct) are different classes; Validation is for ensuring the correctness of the Process
- Kate asks if there is a standard defining these terms in this way
- Nicole and Chuck disagree with respect to what safety standards define for these terms. For safety standards, Evidence and Proof are the same, and for process accuracy the terms audit and assessment are used
- Alfred follows up with the question where attestation would fit into this; this then leads into a discussion regarding attestations by assessors and test procedures etc.
- Alfred asks for the intention: do we focus only on functional safety or on complete systems
- regarding the paper airplane example we can use that to determin the methodology of systems engineering
- the actual modeling of the processes based on the design and the design results in the requirements and constraints
- the processes of automotive, avionics, medical that are in the engineers minds that work in these domains are still not described in an unified way, this is what SPDX can do here
- our approach needs to cover the basic work product types we have in (safety) lifecycles, with giving the flexibility to use these buidling blocks in different processes 
- Verification class:
    - do we really need everything from the REquirement class? Why cannot we pull it straight from the Artifact class?
- do we really need all the proposed members of an Requirement class? Do we really need the Titel and Statement, as this information is kept in the requirements document?
- we need an SPDX way to describe all the hierachy of my requirements, to generate a graph of the traceabiltiy and hierachy of all my requirements
- Requirement class:
    - ReqType is not non-functional and functional, but it should be stuff like system level, software level, high level, low level;
- proposal of Kate: go into our knowledge sources and come up with the terms used for the Requirement Types, to figure out what is the most intuative term that we can use
- do we need a Requirement Title? It is just the name of the requirement, we can use one of the existing properties of Artifact?


## Decisions

## Action Items
