# SPDX FuSa Team Meeting 2025-02-28

## Attendees
* Kate Stewart
* Steven Carbno
* Alfred Strauch
* Nicole Pappler
* Chuck Wolber

## Agenda
* Requirements types: what are the typical types that (safety) standards list and what types of requirement document levels do the standards use?
* continue working on content of  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fMKdoSg7sg-E7ICgIlY6JIdoKTwxdGGHnM6DSH861bc/edit?usp=sharing


## Notes
* Discussion of Requirement & Verification Method work that Alfred & Steven did from industry literature sure. 
   * Looking for literature references. 
* Proof term needs to be reconsidered.   Evidence of result test has run.  
* Evidence to show proof is relevant?
* Some concern that we're over complicating it.   Too deep in the weeds and consideration about lawyers weighing 
* "Evidence" substantiates "Requirement"
* What do we do to say requirement is met?   Test case/specification is how this should be indicated. 
* "Requirement" has Test (which is Verification Method).    Test case has acceptance criteria encoded into it. 
* Release document should collect all the assessment data.   It's another level of test. 
* Method for testing, should have a set of acceptance criteria.   Release information indicates that these 24 tests must pass with evidence,  and these 3 can fail - so that then a release is made.   Aggregation of expectations that come out of test. 
* Fulfillment of the test case;  evidence is what we'd put infront of regulator. 
* Consider leveraging relationship - complete/incomplete
* Ran test, have evidence, that substantiates the requirement.
* Art of Implementation assurance:  implementation must match design. 
    * Requirement <--> Implmentatation.    Between are Tests.    Use to say my design is matching requirement. 
    * Acceptance criteria lives inside the test case. 
* Requirments have to be testable expectations (have a positive claim); will give an outcome.   If conflicting outcome - wrote test wrong or requirement wrong.
* Verification Method has the test case,  test case has to have procedural element, inputs and expected puts, which are sucess criteria.  Another party should be able to look at it and illustrate what is substatintiated. 


## Decisions

## Action Items
