# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 17th May 2022

## Attendees
* Velichka Atanasova
* Rose Judge
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Ivana Atanasova
* Gary O'Neall
* Kate Stewart
* Maximillian Huber

## Regrets
* Dick Brooks

## Agenda
* Introductions
* Procedure for meeting minutes/approval of minutes
* Confirm that Tuesday works for folks to meet. Originally we had talked about using the same time slot as the Open Chain Tooling work group but I (Rose) am realizing that their call is on Wednesdays. I must’ve accidentally scheduled this meeting the wrong day of the week when I setup the invite.
  * Would folks prefer Tuesday or Wednesday at this time?
* Does everyone feel that their tooling can cover the minimum elements for an SBOM?
* Open Table

## Notes
### Introductions
* Companies represented:
    * VMware, Nokia, Linux Foundation, Source Auditor, TNG Technology Consulting
* Tools represented:
    * SPDX Tools, Tern, Haskell tools, FOSSology, SW360

### Moving this call to Wednesday
* Everyone in agreement
* Rose will send out updated invite to mail list subscribers

### Minimum Elements for an SBOM
* Kate: should we add an appendix to the SPDX spec that tells people how to map the NTIA minimum elements to SPDX fields?
  * We could also add it to the website?
  * Rose: Perhaps we write a blog post and link to the appendix in the spec so people googling for the answer can find it as well as those familiar with the spec.
* Gary: Should also add to the spdx examples repo. Having examples is more powerful for tooling implementers.
* Rose volunteers to write the minimum elements example and have Gary review it. Will plan to add it to the [examples repo](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples).

### Upcoming 2.3 SPDX release
* Is everyone ready for this?
* Gary: As soon as draft spec is out, would recommend trying to make changes so we can give feedback to spec team before the final draft.
* Kate: 2.3 will hopefully come out as a draft at the end of May
* Rose: a summary of the biggest changes for the 2.3 spec will be helpful for tooling implementers to know what they need to adjust/change.
* Gary will update the schemas after the 2.3 draft spec
* Rose: Tern uses a command to generate the change log manually if that's helpful at all
* Biggest changes on the radar for 2.3:
  * Changes to ExternalRefs for [representing security information](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/658)
  * Adding a [Package Purpose field](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/622)
  * Some required license fields are [changing to optional](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/635)
* Marc-Etienne: It would be nice to be able to choose which SPDX version to generate in the tools (i.e. 2.2 or 2.3) as some people might want to stay with ISO SPDX.
* Which tools can ingest more than one version of SPDX?
  * The spdx java tools can; unsure about the go or python libraries
* Max: interested in the tools that ingest; how would tools upgrade things that can consume 2.2 to 2.3 without breaking compatability?
* Gary: Going backwards within the dot releases is supposed to be compatible.
* Rose: Information representation should be lossless going from an older version to a newer version but not always the other way around (Kate notes that this might not hold 100% for 3.0)
* Major versions will have breaking changes; we will try to minimize these as much as possible

### Open Table: SBOM Filtering
* Ivana: What are fields that would be skipped when filtering SBOM information [for verbosity]?
* Gary: In 3.0, we've been discussing the concept of profiles. Profiles specify a minimum set of fields for certain use cases.
* Gary: customers filter propietary information out based on license key
  * In terms of verbosity - the inclusion of source files has a HUGE impact on size of the file. With just the package information its significantly less.
* Ivana: where can I find more profile information?
  * The starting point can be seen in the 2.2 appendix. SPDX-Lite is an example of a profile but most of the heavy lifting for profiles will happen in 3.0
* Rose: Ivana and I are working on a POC for SBOM flattening; essentially taking two micro SBOMs and combining them together to make one coherent top-level SBOM
* Gary: have you thought about having a python parsing library as you work on this? Our python tools library is lacking

## Future topics
* SBOM landscape - tooling taxonomy - https://github.com/spdx/sbom-landscape
  * Let's start getting this populated. Open a PR in the repo if you want to add tools
* There's a lot of SPDX formats. From a tool provider this is great but if you are trying to write a document to understand all of them it can be a lot of work. What are people's opinion?
  * JSON LD (Linked Data) is the leading format (slightly different than pure JSON)
  * LD is an RDF serialization format
