# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 1st June 2022

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Ivana Atanasova
* Gary O'Neall
* Nisha Kumar

## Regrets
* Anthony Harrison

## Agenda
* Approve meeting minutes from the last call.
* Please add your tool to the SPDX SBOM landscape.
* Follow-up discussion about SPDX formats: What’s needed? What’s most useful? Should any be deprecated?
* Open table

## Notes
### Approve meeting minutes from last call
* https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/161 - Approved - Rose will merge

### SBOM Landscape
* https://github.com/spdx/sbom-landscape
* Is this coming out of the SPDX landscape?
* Anthony Harrison (via email) would like to add some tools to it:
  * Cve-bin-tool: takes an Spdx SBOM and identifies vulnerabilities in the components. It also supports CycloneDX format and has an experimental VEX file generator.
  * SBOM-manager: manages SBOMs to allow simple interrogation of their content (e.g. which SBOMs contain product X?). It also has a link with cve-bin-tool to perform a vulnerability assessment of a SBOM.
  * SBom4python: generates a SBOM for an installed python module. The Sbom includes all explicit (as specified in a requirements.txt file) and implicit (i.e. hidden dependencies) modules.

### SPDX Formats discussion
* Gary: we should have one preferred format (maybe not "canonical" but encourage all to support). Spec would center on this format and leave it up to the tools for which other formats to support.
* Gary: Tag Value and XML are the seemingly least used.
* Rose: Most of the spec is focused on tag value; converting to JSON is difficult because of different field names between Tag Value and JSON
   * Gary: This is because TV was supposed to be grep-able and so we needed to specify "PackageConcludedLicense" vs just "ConcludedLicense"
* Nisha: the preferred format seems to depend on ecosystem. For example: XML preferred by Java devs and JSON preferred by web services devs
* Gary: TagValue came from unix ecosystem where everything is a human readable text file that you can grep
* Nisha: Legal prefers spreadsheets
* Marc-Etienne: currently (in 2.2) the Excel format is not specified at all (what tabs, what columns...) We should document e.g. what is in the online conversion tool. I have created an issue for that: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/690 This seems too late for 2.3, but should be specified in 3.0
* Rose: would really like to focus on this after 2.3
* Gary: if we don't have developers to maintain the TV parsers, we should consider dropping
* Gary: there is definitely a group of people that would like not to support the RDF formats. Not sure this proposal would carry as RDF has some strong supporters in 3.0 - especially MITRE work is RDF based.
* Gary: is it a problem to only support JSON and then point people to converters?
* Rose: not from a tooling perspective, I would like to encourage more JSON usage.
* Nisha: I think the issue from the implementer's perspective is to maintain multiple formats and multiple versions. It would be nice to have sub-maintainers for the formats. One more variable is language
* Rose: when does 2.3 come out? Could I start opening PRs to update the spec to show JSON or need to talk to tech team first?
* Gary: End of June is safe estimate. As long as it's for after 2.3 it would be helfpul. Adding primarily JSON examples would be a big help.

### Open Table: SPDX Minimum elements
* Rose: was thinking a table with minimum elements mapped to the SPDX field names (need to get this from Kate), then an example document and Nisha will write a blog post.

### Open Table: MicroSBOM tooling
* Nisha: I wonder if there is any tooling to generate micro SBOMs or should we be creating it?
* Ivana: Micro SBOMs are more a concept to adopt rather than specific tooling. I don't see how specific tooling would be needed rather than people able to provide MicroSBOMs for their component level software. Can you clarify specific tooling to generate mSBOMs?
* Nisha: you're right, at this time its just a concept but if there was tooling to generate them per project then we can operationalize them. In order to do that it has to be eay for developers to create them, hence my question about generation tooling (like dependabot)
* Nisha: Reuse has a similar problem. They have this idea of making open source project reuse compatible but I don't know of any tooling that actually does that (for example, tooling that puts license information in every file).
    * Gary: I think Reuse helper tool actually does this: https://git.fsfe.org/reuse/tool
* Rose: would the tool focus on dependencies of the repo or just the specific repo?
* Nisha: Just focused on one repository and the dependency's repository will do the same thing.
* Rose: let's talk about this when Nisha's mic is working :D

### Open Table: SPDX Profile Discussion
* Ivana: where can I find discussion notes about SPDX Usage Profiles?
* Gary: Will look up and provide to Ivana
