# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 29th June, 2022

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Nisha Kumar
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Gary O'Neall


## Agenda
* Approve meeting minutes from the last call.
* Updates from OSS NA?
* Open Table

## Notes
### Approve meeting minutes from last week
* Notes already merged since PR was combined with defects call - https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/191
* If any concerns, we can open a PR that ammends it (no concerns)

### Updates from OSS NA?
* Gary: There was a big meeting with the CDX group that was productive
* Nisha: any concerns around compatability with the two standards?
* Gary: conclusion that documentation around SPDX could be improved. Confusion around definition of a package which is just a distributable unit. CDX has term component which is very similar.
* Nisha: every community deals with how do we describe merkle dags or git commits that people do distribute but it's not a "file", it's metadata.
* Summary from SPDX tech call:
  * Allan Friedman was effective moderator.
  * Objective - make sure people don't hesitate due to conflict.
  * Some work between Gary & Patrick - conversion tools are lossy - went over reasons why it is lossy.   SPDX 2.3 addresses the lossy conversion at this point.   Jesse was very collaborative as well.   Things to improve interoperability.   Sonatype - public data,  conversion utility will be run through their data, and see what info is lost, and what needs to be done to become less lossy.    Once 2.3 spec is out, work will start.    When the analysis is done,  will improve tools.
  * Tool in Gary's repo will be moved to SPDX, once it is ready to move over.  Looking for at least 2 maintainers.
  * CDX Version of 1.4 is what will be targetted for interoperated.    Vex material is in scope for 1.4;  that will be lossy for SPDX 2.3 - but we will be able to put external-ref to their VEX doc,  or separate document.  Possibly CSAF?  Still area of work.   Dick:  CSAF security is fairly stable.
  * If there are Java libraries that import these other standards, please let Gary know.

### Open Table: Tern may support only 2.2
* 2.2 is an ISO standard so there is request for that support to remain
* Nisha: Is 2.2 document compatible with 2.3 document? (why would 2.3 not satisfy ISO standard?)
* Gary: There will be difficulty validating 2.3 documents if tools are written for 2.2
  * You can specify a document version to validate against
* Nisha: Tern has a lot of functionality built in as far as internal model representation but we also support different formats (TV, JSON).
* Gary: This is where it would be nice to have a library
* Nisha: Concern around plugin model -- so we have one plugin for each format; if you were to add versions to that then each of those plugins need to be duplicated
* Gary: not as much of an ISO issue as an issue around how you want to support incramental versions

### 2.3 Schema changes
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/691#issuecomment-1154198748
