# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - October 18, 2023

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Marta Rybczynska
* Samantha Jalabert
* Gary O'Neall
* Dick Brooks
* Nisha Kumar

## Agenda
* Open Table

## Notes
### Yocto project proof of concept for SPDX 3
* Generate SBOMs when they build - have all the sources, the patches, etc 
* Implementing Build, Licensing and Security profiles
* Would like feedback about what they generate - correctness? 
  * Gary took a quick look and it looks reasonable 
* Do we have a SPDX 3.0 validator yet?
  * Java tools not ready yet but work underway. Python tools our best bet right now
* Currently they are validating manually but not sure if it’s correct + time consuming
* Serialization question: what should be at the top level?
  * Actively being discussed as the primary topic in the serialization calls
  * In RC1 no way to tell what is the top of the tree. Currently debating two proposals:
    * One option looks like SPDX 2 where everything has an spdx document where docs have properties about where to start
    * The other is that we have a different class that contains the serialization.
    * Gary has PR: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/509
  * In JSON LD still have SPDX 3 property that tells you where to start but namespaces would be pulled out of JSON syntax 
  * 3rd proposal is separate document with where to start and some way to relate the two
* Is it possible to have several element collections in one model? How many nodes of elements can you have in one branch of a tree?
  * Yes, multiple collections allowed within an SPDX document.
  * Use class called ElementCollection which can hold any number of elements within it and any number of element collections within a serialization. One other factor - in SPDX 3.0 everything has to be wrapped in a document. We agreed to support things where they are not wrapped in a document. If only single element with no collection this will be easy. Single element collection probably ok to implement. If you receive SPDX file with no document in that file then you assume every element is being described by the “document describes” (direct property on x/serializable collection). Not creation info - that’s it.
* TODO: Gary or Rose followup with Max and Armin about SPDX 3.0 validation and update Marta on status
* Aside: May replace online tools with python tools on backend for easier SPDX 3.0 validation
  * Tern and SPDX SBOM Generator tools currently use the java tools for 2.x validation
  * Clarification Q: Will online tools still be available? Of course!

### Miscellaneous
* Are there any Docfests on the schedule? NTIA minimums are where we see the biggest difference in SBOMs
  * Have been holding off for SPDX 3.0 but will consider when it might work for 2.x
