# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 08th March, 2023

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Keith Zantow
* Nisha Kumar
* Meret Behrens
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Ivana Atanasova

## Agenda
* SPDX 3.0 Mini Summit at OSS NA
* PURLs for containers
* Open Table
  * SPDX SBOM Generator for python projects

## Notes
### SPDX 3.0 Mini Summit at OSS NA
* [Event Details](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/features/co-located-events/#spdx-3-tooling-mini-summit)
* Nisha has submitted a talk to OSS NA and will attend if her talk is accepted
* Rose will be there

### PURLs for containers
* Nisha has general concern about PURLs amidst growing popularity
* The purl spec as it stands right now is meant to be vague because it gives basic human understanding of what you're dealing with. It doesn't help with triangulating what you're looking at. This is helpful for known ecosystems. Less helpful for more uknown/obscure package managers (i.e. directory structure or folder with files in it)
* What if a tool is written that builds and deploys binaries and in the background it makes GET requests to an API which makes a request to cloud storage and then pulls stuff. If you're using the client tool you don't know what's happening in the background. 
  * Keith notes there is a [generic type](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/master/PURL-TYPES.rst#generic)
* For packages in a container - where does the namespace come from? Syft uses `/etc/os-release` file and a [few other things](https://github.com/anchore/syft/blob/41cbbe09b205e3b80e8a57d4f7a509b5f938557d/syft/linux/identify_release.go#L25-L54).
* What happens if the repo gets changed by the user? What namespace do you use?
  * For APK we look at the repositories to attempt to validate it at least contains the known alpine ([parse_apk_db.go](https://github.com/anchore/syft/blob/main/syft/pkg/cataloger/apkdb/parse_apk_db.go#L137))
* Nisha: The biggest issue with purl is `oci` is two things in my realm: OCI is "Oracle Cloud Infrastructure" and "Open Container Initiative" - there's a name collision
* purls biggest issue is it's not scalable and very prone to name collisions - should not be used as an identifier even though people want to use it that way
* Shows how someone generally acquired software, but not strict enough to solve the naming problem
* Can you look up CVEs with PURLs? No
* What are people primarily using PURLs for? 
  * Grype intakes a list of purls and it generates CPEs to look up CVEs
* There are two general use cases for PURL currently: 1) trying to figure out generally where the package comes from 2) to solve the naming problem - trying to use it as an identifer (it should NOT be used for this)
* PURL was supposed to be a coloquial thing that could be shaped and modified depending on what users/community of developers understand this to be. Not meant to reflect something concrete which is the direction it seems to be headed in

### Open Table - SPDX SBOM Generator for python projects
* SPDX SBOM Generator - [Kubeflow](https://github.com/kubeflow/) project is trying to generate SBOMs for CNCF requirement.
* When generating from source they didn't get any license info from [SPDX SBOM Generator](https://github.com/opensbom-generator/spdx-sbom-generator) - is there a recommendation around how a python project can have this metadata recognized?
* A good amount of the python parsers are broken - but they only look at manifests that exist on the filesystem - not sure whether the problem happens when they point the tool to source code or using the CI after a build
* If there's a requirements.txt file it should work
