# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 22nd February 2023

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Meret Behrens
* Keith Zantow
* Ivana Atanasova
* Adolfo Garcia

## Agenda
* Approve meeting minutes from last week
* Enumerating quality - how to do it/where to start?

## Notes
### Approve meeting minutes from last week
*  https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/279  - Approved

### SBOM Quality
* Adolfo gave a [presentation](https://fosdem.org/2023/schedule/event/sbom_key_ingredients/) around SBOM quality at FOSDEM. The basics for quality:
  * Software integrity (hashes)
  * Supplier data (compliance/regulation often mandate this)
  * Software identifiers (purls, cpes)
  * Semantic structure (where the components fit in the SBOM that models/reflects the piece of software)
  * Licensing data
  * Dependeny information
  * Symantic correctness 
* Quality means different things to different users.
* How does the data in the SBOM enable other users?
  * Why do you need structure? - You need to extract info from one of your components to compose into new one or act on it.
* Trying to ingest SBOMs in the real world you see SBOMs expressing information differently. One SBOM might only be providing the OS dependencies
* If I'm indexing a file to express in an SBOM - that file can be found in different tools in different places
* FOSDEM SBOM room healthy mix of tool users, writers, maintainers. 
* Maybe instead of starting with an appendix for the spec we start with a blog post based on Adolfo's talk at FOSDEM. Rose can start the first draft and send to the group to review/edit

### OSS NA
* Planning an SPDX Day 0 event similar to implementers call
* Will try to have virtual option as well
* Adolfo and Rose will most likely be there in person

### Open Table
* Ivana looking for written summary of discussion: Should SPDX have a specific order of things?
  * Will send to the mailing list if found
* Maybe we want to publish a blog about package checksum/package verification code? Rose will discuss with Kate.
