# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 26 July, 2023

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Mike Lieberman
* Armin Tanzer
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Holger Frydrych
* Surendra Pathak
* Nisha Kumar
* Anton Bashlykov
* Dick Brooks

## Agenda
* SPDX Tools Update
* Open Table

## Notes
### SPDX Tools Update
* Armin and Holger have done great work updating the SPDX Python Tools library 
* Using the update to python tools to update Tern (https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/1233)

### GUAC dependencies
* In some context, via the different spdx or cdx tools, they can determine what depends on what (x depends on y, depends on z) but also sometimes cannot and it's a flat dependency structure. 
* GUAC wants to inform the consumer of the SBOM that they were only able to determine a flat structure vs determining direct and transitive deps
* Nisha: in order to create the dependency tree you have to hook into the build system resolver. The maven plugin in able to do this but doesn't actually print out the dep tree, it just resolves it into CONTAINS. Most tools do this.
* Rose and Adolfo have been working with GitHub team that generates SPDX documents
* Mike: situation where there might be a CVE that needs updating and if it's not a direct dependency then how do you know which direct dependency to update?
* Surendra: At least for NTIA-Min-Elements "CONTAINS" is the preferred relationship 
* Mike: the ability to tell folks "we pulled in a bunch of information and we don't know any more than that"
* Armin: There's the "relationshipCompleteness" to inform people that your relationship is not exhaustive. https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/main/model/Core/Vocabularies/RelationshipCompleteness.md
  * Nisha: I was thinking of the completeness flag too but it's either complete or not complete and I am guessing all tools are going to check "not complete" 
* Rose: in 2.3 you could indicate incompleteness in a package comment but this is not machine readable like a flag
* Nisha: The vulnerability remediation story is heavily focused on "scanning" but not for "analysis of software" 
* Dick: some promising lights on the horizon - if companies had used SBOM to monitor installed software, they would've been able to take preventitve action
* Rose: there was a request in Tern a long time ago asking for completeness of an SBOM (https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/issues/781)
  * This is hard for a lot of reasons; a ton of nuance involved
* Dick: The EU CRA makes it clear that an SBOM is useful for software vulnerability monitoring: https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-11726-2023-INIT/en/pdf 

### Ecosystems lacking in SPDX?
* Rose: are there any ecosystems that are lacking in SPDX tools or metadata?
* Nisha: in order to query vulnerability databses you need a CPE or purl identifier. Purl doesn't seem like a good format for identification
  * Can we standardize on a way to communicate this information?
  * Dick: IETF SCITT has discussed the need to uniquely identify a software products
* Surendra: Challenge with 3.0 RC1, we don't see a bunch of SPDX documents lying around 
  * Rose: Security team is working on actual examples that tools can consume and test
* Dick: Yes, it's impossible to search NIST NVD
* Nisha: other databases besides the NVD but GitHub is working on this. In order to hook SBOM to vulnerability you need an ID to link the two
* Dick: would also be nice if we have uniquely identified suppliers
* Nisha: can have good or bad purls i.e. Docker container might have the "latest" tag or sha256 sum to identify
* Surendra: purl allows multiple IDs for the same package
* Mike: I think purls are generally good. The biggest issue we see with the purls is a lot of the purls are quite ambiguous
  * https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/242 - I have an open issue around some concerns with purl at least as it's done today. Also related: https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/239
  * Nisha: this is something I had brought up to LF and didn't get a lot of help/understanding. Maybe Mike (OpenSSF TAC) can help?
* Classic PURL ambiguity  pkg:deb/debian/curl@7.50.3-1?arch=i386&distro=jessie pkg:deb/debian/dpkg@1.19.0.4?arch=amd64&distro=stretch  This can refer to either distro and is valid: pkg:deb/ubuntu/dpkg@1.19.0.4?arch=amd64
  * Rose also brought this up a similar use case of different packages with the same purl: https://twitter.com/rosejudge5/status/1666692739113820161?s=46&t=nkvJyMggBkZFIIetSfP1OQ
* Mike: ambiguity is fine in some cases. But if I expect to download this file from this place with this hash - that shouldn't change
* Surendra: anybody know if this identification problem is being worked for hardware?
* Dick: CISA has an HBOM initiative: https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/groups/ict-supply-chain-risk-management-task-force 
* Rose: there will be a hardware profile working group starting soon in SPDX (in preparation for a SPDX hardware profile/bom)
* Nisha: most firmware/hardware is not open source so not as much community initiative on this
