# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 25th January, 2023

## Attendees
* Armin Tanzer
* Dick Brooks
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Keith Zantow
* Ivana Atanasova
* Adolfo Garcia
* Gary O'Neall

## Agenda
* Container structure in SPDX documents

## Notes
### Container structure in SPDX docs
* Containers are a good illustration of complexity but as far as format is concerned
* From consumer side, whatever is running in their environment we care about and containers fall into this category
* Rose shows nginx Tern document 
  * Dick: is there supplier information?
  * Rose: that is being worked on right now (https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/issues/1205)
  * Dick: the "latest" tag [in reference to the container `Package`]is useless for looking CVES. Maybe you can use the hash?
  * Rose: it is not important because you don't look up CVEs by the container itself -- this will not be recorded in the NVD, packages within the container will be recorded with NVD
* Containers use a tag which points to a hash - even if we were to find out what the latest tag points to, it will still be a checksum and may or may not be a relation to a version
* To find CVEs for a container, run the SBOM for the container through NVD (Grype does this)
* SBOM quality: a very simple vuln checker looks at everything as a package but it's more useful to know the relationships of those packages so you can filter them out for more sophisticated vulnerability checker can look at relevant packages
* Dick: right now we take anything with package or file name and look for a CVE in NVD
  * Might want to consider observing the relationship types. Obvserving everything you find will end up with a lot of false positives. Some value in spitting out everything, too.
* Syft not representing containers in SPDX today. The main reason we haven't done it yet is because until 2.3 there was no way to denote a package (Now can use `PRIMARY_PACKAGE_PURPOSE` in 2.3)
* Question: if you're generating an SBOM for an index instead of the actual image - what arch do you pick?
  * Tern defaults to whatever architecture the machine is running Tern on
  * Adolfo: some users wants SBOMs for all architectures, but it depends on user expectation
* Keith shows Syft SPDX SBOM
  * All the files represented are associated with packages? Yes
  * Files are contained by the package
  * Container is not actually represented as a package currently
  * When we do add the full support, there will be `CONTAINS` relationship between packages and containers. Layer information is in file comment. 
    * Without layer relationships, it's hard to represent this in a graph; hard to parse comments
  * All packages will be listed as `CONTAINS` within the container
* Adolfo shows BOM tool SPDX document
  * First SBOM is the index of all the arch container images
  * We use the oci type purl for each container "package" as an ExternalRef
  * Each layer represented in each image. The first layer doesn't have any relationships; the second layer has all the relationship. The tool will go through and see which layer has last changes to the OS
  * arch specific Image VARIANT_OF the index
  * Second layer records all of the base OS packages
  * Nisha: difference between BOM tool and Tern - you are looking at the image index and Tern is looking at the container manifest. This is a byproduct of me not knowing what a container is in the beginning when I made the tool. Tern downloads the container on disk and lays out the SPDX document based on how it looks on disk.
  * Adolfo: if you are running a dependency analysis - the information should match from BOM tool doc and Tern doc.
  * Nisha: OCI community often said "layers are an impementation detail, not important"; however, they are distributed based on layers.
  * At the high level of how do we represent SPDX packages - because containers are a mixture of tarballs and manifest files pointing to different tarballs - I'm not sure how to deal with that.
  * Adolfo: from my POV, it captures nicely in models but not sure how helfpul it is
  * Rose: is there much descrepancy between arch image SBOMs?
    * Adolfo: there was one case where a CVE only presented on the windows image but mostly the same
* Dick: can we start with something simpler? Maybe we can start with something flat
* Adolfo: how much does the structure of the SBOM match the way the software is assembled? In my view, if you have the structure well modeled, you can always go back and flatten things to the way you need. Each consumption tool needs to be able to rearrange the parts you're interested in.
* Nisha: instead of looking at containers, can we look at one binary generated from source code or a simple python application?
  * https://github.com/SantiagoTorres/spdx-linking-mockups/blob/master/use-cases/app/cluster-autoscaler.svg
  * Assume we have a tool that can model this and try to figure out how to represent this in an SPDX document. Onec we have this we can go up to container level
  * Dick: one other option is to take something we are already familiar with: apache?
    * Dick TODO: will send analysis binary to the mailing list 
