# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting -14 June, 2023

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Armin Tanzer
* Nisha Kumar
* Parth Patel
* Gary O'Neall

## Agenda
* SBOM enricher tools discussion

## Notes
### Enhancing tools
* Rose: The current issues I see are
  * How can you ensure that the information they're enhancing it with is describing the same software the original SBOM refers to? There's no 100% reliable URI. Tools are currently using purl for this.
  * Time differences in when SBOM is generated vs enriched (especially an issue for containers which change content frequently without changing the purl reference
  * No way to distinguish which metadata in the enriched SBOM came from the original producer of the document or the enrichment tool
* Parth: Trust -- is it chaining information correctly?
* To separate original SBOM info from enriched info - in SPDX 3 you would have the opportunity to put enhancement information into a new file which could reference the original SBOM. Analysis class discussed briefly may be able to cover this too? TBD
  * Original SBOM should not be modified (even though thats what the tools are doing currently) - use amends relationship for the document
* Folks would rather have vulnerability data than SBOM
* No example of documents that just contain vulnerability data but this is what the SPDX 3 security profile is designed for.
* Nisha: Currently use CDX to store vulnerability data and then external reference from CDX to SPDX SBOM
  * Wonder if we can do this using SPDX 3.0? 
  * Should be able to do this with security profile in 3.0
  * SPDX V 2.3 already supports linking SBOM to a Vulnerability Disclosure Report, that's a living document at a static URL: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/how-to-use/#k19-linking-to-an-sbom-vulnerability-report-for-a-software-product-per-nist-executive-order-14028
* Do any of the VEX specifications have the ability to refer back to an SBOM?
  * OpenVEX does not - Rose will open an issue for this
  * CDX VEX and VDR provide a link to an SBOM
* Dick: VEX document must contain at least one vulnerability or it doesn't exist vs VDR which is product focused
* Parth: This link from VEX back to SBOM is handled in GUAC where a VEX is tied to a "product" which knows which SBOM it came from. When ingesting VEX documents there are purls associated with them and then each purl/product are linked to an SPDX SBOM. purls must be identical to be linked. Also can link with digest/hash. 
* Dick shows a VDR example.
  * https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rjb4standards/REA-Products/master/SBOMVDR_JSON/VDR_118.json
  * Link back to the SBOM ("SBOMLocation") 
  * VDR is attestation that software producer has scanned SBOM for vulnerabilities
  * This particular example is the REA specific implementation: https://github.com/rjb4standards/REA-Products/tree/master/CDXVEX
  * CDX also has an implementation
* Max: request for feedback for JSON serialization examples:
      * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/375
      * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/376 (should support JSON-LD as well)
