# SPDX Hardware BOM Meeting - 2023-11-17

## Attendees
* Steven Carbno - Smart Talk Beacon
* Alfred Strach - Smart Talk Beacon
* Bob Martin - MITRE
* Jim Vitrano
* Rob Mains - Chips Alliance General Manager
* Kate Stewart - SPDX Core
 
## Agenda
* Intro of any new folk 
* Review of Use Case scope & starting points

## Notes
* Rob Mains from Chips Alliance joining
* Virtual hardware play forward for Safety - Standard Data structure.
  * How virtual machines 
  * What do you label a virtual machine model
  * Tag or lack of presence - make fiels optional vs. mandatory.
  * Virtual - some fields are not required?   Physical - some fields are not required?
  * Common elements are required.
  * Common network adaptors.   Profiles for safety - useful here to have a set.
  * If FPGA virtual, we should be able to support. 
  * Can tie virtual to hardware (parents) - so Virtual OR Physical
  * Work on refining https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OdUDRcLFxXz3bskuvCOmji710dS6b6HMLuWMYBoF1Cc/edit

## Open Question: 
- Can GTIN be used for library (virtual hardware)
- Using a virtual piece to simulate an external piece of hardware
- Handling VEX 
- Where do I find it so I can inventory it?
- Virtual where has it been deployed?
- Relationship to supply chain... 
- Where it is depending on time -- so possibly relationship.
- Can you validate this virtual hardware performs (certify) same as hardware BOM.
- Serial - limited to physical (should identical be allowed?)
- Batch number - in virtual - "build number";  likely to be possible in hardware. 
- Virtual component - have to tie to software supply chain - sofrtware build artifact ... (which is going to how it is derived).
- External id,  what it should it be rather than who described.
- To get to virtual --> transverse to getting information in software 
- FPGA:   probably has software build artifact,  and tie this as a relationship to the software process.   FPGA build image as a build of software.    FPGA image should be treated as software.    Data stream - designed tested and deployed. 
- How to represent configuration of FPGA?   Running on virtual model? 
- Keeping it obvious what is being communicated?
- Linking hardware to software - what is lowest common denominator?  
- Programming an arguement chip? 
- Build profile issue at where you connect it. 
- Do we need a process set of associations?  Processes.    
- Pedigree of hardware?   Do we need 
- Process - can we handle with relationship (with time state)
- Ingredients ... how a given block or member is contructed.   
- Subcomponent and breaking down.  Pedigree.   
- Sucessfully recreating a given design with a given process. (like reproducible builds in software).
- Virutal flag allows us to do a lot - sub components of single chip.    Could be software virtualization or hardware virutalization. 
- Complex compile environment to build up virtual & phyiscal - need to be able to articulate from pedigree perspective. 
- Input data stream - coming in over hardware?   network bill of materials -  data source.
- We don't want to represent this in hardware other than as a virtual port.   **. Virtual networking system?
-Interface -  define to relationship to "data stream"
- Link to a hardware,  link to software,  link to "data bus"  -- data input source?
- Data isn't really a hardware component - whole issue of I/O is a bigger question. 
- Process Chain - how it was built.   How ship from multiple factories,   shipping from multiple locations.
- How tranfer between two nodes.
- It's fluid, not "stamped in metal", etc. 
- Shipped by boat, airplane, ...   "environmental degradation based on shipping method" 
- Definition of organizations risk factors,  nature of process and acceptability of given process. 
- Full chain of custody, when it's essentail, need to scale to. 
- SBOM & VEX issues.   Software BOM & Hardware BOM.   Automation processes vs. confidentiality. 

## Decisions
* Data is not in scope - we'll look at tying it separately via relationshps. 

## Action Items - Next meeting
* Michael G - how handle Data inputs in simultions?
* Kate - map fields from Steve & CISA into document and start mapping to SPDX
* All - plan out the roadmaps & organizations to provide context
* Future - turn into presentation to start socialization and gathering further input.
