# SPDX Hardware BOM Meeting - 2024-02-23

## Attendees
* Kate Stewart
* Steven Carbno 
* Alfred Strauch
* Victor Lu
* Jim Vitrano
* Alex Volynkin
* Monty Wiseman (Trusted Computing Group)

## Agenda
* Intro of any new folk
* Update from Alex thoughts about what digital twin should cover?
* Steve / Alfred preliminary use case work
* Host for next meeting on March 8 or skip?

## Notes
### New Members
*. Monty will be taking over as primary rep from Trusted Computing Group

### Fleshing out Use Case Work
* Steven working through example diagram for fields. 
* Discussion on assurance.   Want to be able to make sure the assurance formats can reference what we record what they need.
* Hardware stack describes core element of hardware;  and rest of information is pulled in via relationships. 
* Kate raised system BOM consideration and tracking what's in a system over time.    Kate referenced the Spectre / Meltdown.   Also Car example for service notion.
* Monty raised we have to be able to articulate systems as they are running and make an assessment as well.  TCG has been focusing on component identify for current machine state and be able to tell remotely.   PC & ICT has OEMs - advisory
* Alfred - hardware manufacturers need to be specific about build and assembly;  and tie software to assembly.
* Discussion of when to engage advisory folks for reviewing our fist drafts.    Kate & Monty have connections and ideas of how to engage.
* Victor raised up importance of documented use cases to improve understanding. 
* To what extent CVEs can represent what affected objects - usages captured.   Lets look at this as starting point. 

### Next meeting on March 8?
Steven willing to host, so meeting will happen

## Decisions
* Modularity and relationships are going to be key for tracking. 

## Action Items
* Line up a compare/contrast assurance model - see if Bob willing to present?
* Alex to draft first pass at using fields/proposing new ones to describe his digital twins.

## References 
Working notes on profile contents: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OdUDRcLFxXz3bskuvCOmji710dS6b6HMLuWMYBoF1Cc/edit
System BOM:
https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2024-01/Assembling-a-Group-of-Products_508c_0.pdf
SPDX 3.0 model
https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/ - has UML diagrams for Core & Security to reference.
