# SPDX Hardware BOM Meeting - 2024-01-26

## Attendees
* Steven Carbno 
* Alfred Strauch
* Bob Martin
* Alex Volynkin
* Victor Lu
* Hasan Yasar
* Michael Gielda
* Josh Schiffman

## Agenda
* Intro of any new folk
* Follow up on pending action items
* Work on refining document

## Notes
### New Folk
* Victor Lu:  Consultant on databases,  getting interested in understanding 
* Hasan Yasar:  CMU,  SEI institute - System perspective.   Supporting SBOM with Application life cycle.   System level.  
* Josh Schiffman:  Trusted Computing Group & HP background. 

### Working through document
* Steve to add diagram to document to help Michael understand 
* SNES ( board ) with chip - software runs on CPU, so goes to Chip.   Software running on DSP, etc.   Relationship to multiple hardwares,  firmware build tied to CPU, etc?   What should we recommend as best practices.   on CPU, DSP, etc. 
* Michael commenting that same image can be running on different hardware, that is similar.  
* Hasan raises differences between Emulator vs. Simulator.    
* Example of RaspberryPI Model B example into. 
* Starting to discuss if Serial Number makes sense for Virtual - or should it be handled by relationship.   Maintenance logs may require this for Virtual Twin, types of scenario.     Desire to avoid two numbers unless you actually need it.  
* Virtual representation needs to be able to be linked to actual skew numbers
* Models may have different fidelity - we may need to attributes to be able to indicate this. 
* Component name & version - should be able to align with specific hardware.  Alter and configure differently.   Change parameters in virtual model, configuration change?   before goes to real world. 
* Bill of Materials should link to operational data - consumed, can configure to new settings.
* Configuration file needs to be realworld and physical device.  
* Hardware is configured when it departs, collect as part of HBOM.    Microcontroller do personalization, blow production bit, then ship it.   Need to represent in BOM that wasn't blown, so potential vulnerable state.  Should just reflect what is shipped. 
* When tailored into environment - have same need for lifecycle phases.
   * How was it designed, created, shipped, installed, operating. 
* Some discussion on where a signatures should be captured.   Multiple signatures may have relationships.  Machines that did critical things, may need to sign part of it,   then inspector that passed the device, may need to sign,  then manufacturer may need to sign whole thing.   In factory may have parts visible,  others may need be visible. 
* Discussed that Virtual flag - required field,  either Virtual or Phyisical. 
* Discussion of country of origin, exact location of manufacture.    Sub assembly would be HBOMs that would be referred to.   Location of construction, manufacture or assembly. 

### Potential Decisions.
* Fidelity of the virtual models needs to be captured in some fashion. 
* Configuration information could affect hardware (virtual or real) or software,  so should probably be in core.

## Prior Outstanding Action Items
