# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2024-06-28

## Attendees
* Alfred Strauch
* A.J. Stein (NIST)
* Amit Kumar
* Kate Stewart
* Monty Wiseman
* Steven Carbno
* Tito Dakshinamoon
* Yorke Rhodes III

## Agenda
Define RelationshipTypes to add.

## Notes
* Discussion about Lifecycle - do we need it?   
   * ValidUntilTime & Support level to specify end of support.
   * How many times have things been turned/off
   * What about running for multiple hours (rather than point in time) 
   * Receritification scenarios;  reissuing implications
   * Updating the lifecycle?  rarely add after the shipping. 
   * What about piece of hardware that is compositional, and sold as a unit:   Use of "contains" relationship.
   * Lifecycle is already defined, do the concepts align?   Mostly, but have different terms but similcar concept.  - assembly, manufacture.
   * Should we consider these as milestones?    Milestones
   * Intent is to identify the validity of a product,  is it reliable, stable, safe to use.    These are the issues that manufacturers have to work with to ensure it can be used in the appropriate environments.   Example - temperature range - if ever hits 200C, it should not be used.   Has it ever been wet?    
   * Constraints -- better term?  seems to be agreement. 
   * Allow to have multiple constraints.  - evironmental, time, operation....
   * For each constraints, there should be a dictionary item.  
   
* Discussion around provenance of goods
  * Some concerns around security and obsfucation
  
* Software running on hardware?  
   * RunsOn - Software runson a hardware (possibly set of hw) / virtual environment / Software (ie. OS)
   
* What about hardware being manufactured ( BuiltOn)?    HasHost?

* Some of the other Build Profile relationships are relevant for assembly as well - Inputs? Requirements? Specification?
* Attestation about the process.

* AppendOnly stores - for supply chain.   Attestation happens as an augment,  how prove - platform certificates.  
  * Two forms - X509 signing from Manufacturer.   Attestation that this software is bound to a device.   This information applies to this device/group of devices.   
  * IETF consideratoins.
  
* Next time:  Dictionary for Constraints?    Min Temperature, Max Temperature,  OSCAL may have starting points.

## Decisions
* Move from Lifecycle --> Constraints
* RunsOn as a relationship

## Action Items
* Monty to diagram the use case
* Steve to update the SPDX Use Cases document. 
* Kate to do translation on Google Presentation
* AJ to present on Constraints next meeting.
