# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2024-07-26

## Attendees
* Alex Volynkin
* Alfred Strauch
* A.J. Stein
* Isaac Asay
* Kate Stewart
* Steven Carbno
* Tito Dakshinamoorthy

## Agenda
* Use Case Diagraming (Monty)? --> Next time
* Use Case Updates (Steven)? --> Next time
* Further discussion of constraints? 
* Proposed Example: https://designer.antmicro.com/hardware/devices/cubesat_edge_computing_system to check our model against for hardware & software interaction.   Physical & digital twin.   (Kate)

## Notes
* Constraints 
  * from discussion from Safey - we need to figure out how to capture mean time to failure?  
  * Should we even use the word constraints, and how should we record. 
  * There is a way of representing ranges.
  * 8601 has a notion of durations ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601#Durations)  Investigate using this.    =, <, might be worth considering.   For example, "P3Y6M4DT12H30M5S" represents a duration of "three years, six months, four days, twelve hours, thirty minutes, and five seconds".
  * How should we include in classess?
     * Possible simple & complex:  
        * Time based - EOL, EOS, dates;
        * Count based - number of cycles before service, or EOL, or ...
        * Item - matches to hardware element list - how describe consumable.   Paper going thorugh ticketing machine.   Then what % through of consumables.   Use for triggers. 
     * Constraints should stay within an element.
     * Should constraints be artifacts on themselves?    
     * Can we use relationships to define constraints applying to physical/virtual devices.  ***
  * Physical Hardware - should it be Artifact?    Possibly yes, noting that some
  * Should requirements be handled separately? 

* Discussion about Potential Cubesat example
   * We want this for physical and virtual (digital twin) - general agreement that this example is worth doing
     * Virtual hardware can also be used to instantiate
   * AJ says that there are examples in chiplets;   
      * CDXML;   sub-sub-sub components.;  
      * eFABless - tiny tapeout might be worth thinking 
      * OpenCompute & Chips Alliance.
  * Many layers down without talking to fabricators

## Decisions
* Constraints should align with Artifacts.

## Action Items
* Steven, Kate:  Reworking model diagrams
* All:  First pass at hierarchy and applying to model for https://designer.antmicro.com/hardware/devices/cubesat_edge_computing_system
