# SPDX Hardware BOM Meeting - 2024-01-12

## Attendees
* Steven Carbno
* Bob Martin
* Kate Stewart
* Alfred Strauch
* Michael Gielda
* Alex Volynkin
* Jim Vitrano

## Agenda
* Intro of any new folk
* Follow up on pending action items
* Work on refining document

## Prior Action Items 
* Michael G - how handle Data inputs in simultions? - DONE
* Kate - map fields from Steven & CISA into document and start mapping to SPDX
* All - plan out the roadmaps & organizations to provide context.
* Future - turn into presentation to start socialization and gathering further input.
* Future - Alex - Will report on next meeting. 
* Start of use case document - so can through partial thoughts,  so we can later test the metadata fields against them.   Start with ones articulated here. 

## Notes
* Data Inputs to simulation,  what's out there? 
  * RESD https://antmicro.com/blog/2022/12/synchronized-multi-sensor-data-in-renode-with-resd/ 
    * It's evolving https://renode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/basic/resd.html;  multimodal data, resampling, etc,
    * RESD format has datapoints - is it coming in as files or streams?   Predominantly files.     RESD files have timestamps (virtual time is being used when deterministic).    Streams are possible.    
    * Common use case is testing with historic data to avoid regressions.   Day of data is replayed in 7 minutes.
    * No MIME type for RESD files at this type,  so treat as data files.
    * we can e.g. convert CSV data into RESD (https://renode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/basic/resd.html#csv-resd) 
  * Data can also be coming in e.g. over sockets (streams);  to virtual as well as real hardware.
    * Bob spotted article for Optical Digital Twins inputs:  https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s40684-020-00196-5
    * Alex raised digital drones,  drone capturing, and then sent over the network to the digital twin on server.   Software has components to build in the build the virtual world.   Mostly vendor specific at this point. 
    * Michael notes that in the open, is going to be key for effective standardization.
    * Alex notes that industry specific attempts to standardize; are not coherent. 
    * Michael notes he's seeing, that specific industry don't care about standardization.
* How significant are the time lags betweens drones to digital twins?   
   * It is an issue,  but usually bigger problem to solve first.
   * Most of models aren't trying to be real-time data;  mostly used for "what if" planning.     Not classic control system, that lets it say that a part is about to wear out (predictive, behavioral, perfomance)
   * For digital twins multiple signals coming in, may be getting out of sync.  Example lidar, optical, etc.  
   * Time synchronization is important more than real time. 
 * Alfred: Infrastructure role, and impact of network on streaming is an important consideration.  What is relationship between the network to the hardware syncronization?    Examples include wireless,  miles of cables, etc.    TSN conversation and fields become significant. 
* Digital twin consortium is trying to organize this, but lots of activity in the marketplace is hard to coral.
   * Real time operation of the device vs. real world data collection for predicction?
   * May impact the 
* Stream may change characteristics over time.
  * Synchronization methods - would it be same across different streams?   Right now, it's probably not, but it may be something to be considered.    Lots of buffers, and clock/reclock.   Timestamp internally, vs. real world.
  * For hardware bill of materials,   connection stream input.   Do we need to think about eventually clock this?   Example of drifting from clock over time;  how do we make sure from a safety perspective, what is sharing time modules?   Some form of centralized synchronization?  More accurate the model will behave.   Groupings of what needs to synchornized?    Likely need to be able to specify this in some fashion for streams. 
  * Alex sees, Hardware security modules,  internal or over communication channels.  Challenge implementing some of this in digital twins, as it's not hardware.  Interaction.  Hardware security standards? 
  * Alfred,  discussion revolves around interaction between hardware and software. 
  * Kate, brought up crypto accellerators - IP blocks,  libraries;   same function.   Depends what customer buys.
  * Alex, discussion of secure coprocessors - do computation inside hardware module.   see examples from TI, Cypress,  etc. for the secure hardware module.    Wondering if issue with digital twin scenario,  part of BOM, could be crypto implementation, secure vault of keys, needs to follow common standard.   PSA, TPM, etc.
  * Bob: Some of this probably should be abstracted to functional level.   Alex, agree unless need to deal with the specific algorithms.   Would be nice to have a standard so have confidence what you're testing in the digital twin is faithful to the TPMs, tec.   Would need this from vendor likely.
  * Steve should this be a use case for the virtual hardware?   So its easier for the digital twins, to read the BOMs, which libraries should be used?   Alex agrees this is in the right direction. 
  * Jim: pondering real time simulation of FPGAs these days.   How much link to other things should we be aiming at vs. capturing as parameters.  More concrete use cases might help us decide.
  
### Meeting Cadence
* Discussion of meetingcadence,  keep it at 2 weeks was concensus.

## Future Agenda
* 1/26 - Alex report back
* 2/9 - Review the first draft of the fields figured out to date
