# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2024-04-05

## Attendees
- Alfred Strauch
- Steven Carbno 
- Bob Martin
- Ravi Thakur
- Victor Lu
- Alex Volynkin
- Monty Wiseman
- Jim Vitrano

### Regrets
- Kate Stewart (traveling)

## Agenda
- Additional relationships to connect hardware, virtual & software

## Notes
* Current Relationship types can be found: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/main/model/Core/Vocabularies/RelationshipType.md
   * do we want to add a "runsOn" or "executesOn" to capture HW/SW connection?
   * should we extend "contains" to capture HW to HW inclusion (ie. chip on a board, etc) or should a new relationship be introduced?

## Decisions
* HW-HW
 * HW-SW
 * Relationship definitions
 * Use of Associations
 * Relationship of patents to licensing
 * finalize virtualization discussion - when to use - 2 use cases - HW or SW options
 * Assembly or component concept (contains may not be satisfactory)
 
- Hardware patents/license of games may be an issue. 
- Victor suggested have discussion with Legal meeting - 
- Need to include IoT group
- AI complicates issues related to patents/licensing
- IoT and hardware have relationship
- ExecOn partial and complete needs to be considered - Steven
- Complet is used in safety and security implementation were all exec need to be known - where is the code running 
- only on vs runs on multiples hbom
- Implications related to IoT gaming
- Software and hw - maybe use point of execurtion 
- Where is it going to run - not where it is coming in
- Firmware blob - divide on installation
- Main operation, only in this location and partial - 3 types of relationships
- Modules run SW. Simply says there is SW on model. Comes from packaging (blob) and delivery (sparate process)
- SW distributed at installtion - do you want history - components of SW are used where
- How does SBOM deal with SW blob. Bob comments that this is a supply chain process. 
- need to capture the base HW and related software outside of distribution 
- IoT/gaming have HW and SW tied to supply chain - Steven suggested starting with HW/SW ties without history or supply chain components
- AI profile related to HW- HW not in AI profile
- Life cycle scope on relationship field needs to be considered - can this be used to reflect data flow or operations
- At what level do you stop documenting compoents - recommentation is if a componet has a defined D being the lowest level (Assembly states captured as HBOM components?)

## Action Items
- Referal of Patent issue to Legal team
- Input from IoT team related to blob 
- Input from AI related to hardware
- Assembly states captured as HBOM components?

## Next SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2024-04-19
