# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2024-05-17

## Attendees
- Alfred Strauch
- Steven Carbno 
- Yorke E Rhodes
- Ravi Thakur
- Alex Volynkin
- Amit Kumar
- Kate Stewart
- Tito
- Victor Lu
- Aproorav - MS 
- Henk Birkholz
- Bob Martin
- Roy Williams
- Jim Vitrano


## Agenda
* May 17 Henk Birkholz will present reference integrity manifest
* SPDX specific relationship case studies need to be considered
* Henk will outline execution for repo
* Define the scope for the HBOM group.
* How will anomalies in hardware and related software should be addressed?
* Do we need to capture power consumption (energy measure)? Can you reuse from the AI?
* is Heat disappation is important as well?

## Notes
* Henk rescheduling to May 31 - due to personal problems.

* Scope: Definition of HBOM for discussion.
Identify the inventory of hardware components in a mannar that supports identification, physical characteristics, virtualization, life cycle and relationships between hardware and system components.

SPDX supports the compliance, security, safety and virtualization use cases for HBOMs.

 * Discussion about Data - as an artifact on it's own --> hence use system rather than related.
 
 * Open question on anomolalies - DDOS attacks example intel (https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/security-center/advisory/intel-sa-01084.html) .   Hardware weakness - treated with mitigations.   The weakness is mitigated by software (usually at the firmware level).    If a type of hardware has a weakness - reference to publication.   Should this be captured in the HBOM?   It probably should be captured in Security profile, being overlayed with what. 
 
 * Note that we'd want to use multiple documents referring to historical/points in time. 
 
 * Serial numbers - and a classes of components.   As long as it is composable with component identifiers we should be able to represent these use cases. 
 
 * What is shipped must be able to be matched against warehouses.   Specifics needed here.    
 
 * Do we want to move this to 2 hours earlier?   Would let team in India participate better.     Agreement.
 
 * Power consumption:   Specific use cases?   -- looking to reuse from AI profile. 
    * Keeping units and types the same (or possibly extend them). 
    * Issue of Energy operations may be relevant in future.
    
 * Heat disappation:  Possibly put in general fields.   (optional).   Henk warns that there isn't much concensus out there right now,  so possible environment impact.   Make most of this optional. 
 
 * Prior working doc:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OdUDRcLFxXz3bskuvCOmji710dS6b6HMLuWMYBoF1Cc/edit#heading=h.uqja9ct6glbm
 * Legend 
 https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1H5WJonJYRsn-FekY5GTvCadES3dO6a66GqMf-iiTJec/edit#slide=id.g27042d9b19b_0_120
 
 
## Decisions
*  Moving meting to 2 hours earlier - 

## Action Items
*

## Next SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2024-05-31
