# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2024-08-09

## Attendees
* Alfred Strauch
* Steven Carbno
* Bob Martin
* Jim Vitrano
* Kate Stewart
* Tito Dakshinamoorthy
* Amit Kumar

## Agenda
* Discussion of Cubesat example. 
* open questions from Amit

## Notes
* Cubesat example examination: https://designer.antmicro.com/hardware/devices/cubesat_edge_computing_system
   * Component version: not always present - so make it optional - general agreement from group as discussed issues.   For virtual - may want to use git id, but physical may not be so easy. 
   * Consider a relationship beyond "contains" for hardware
      - When physical hardware goes through maintenance, and parts get swapped out. 
      - Do we want to use concept of "removal". or A was "replaced" by B.
      - Removal and replacement may not be related.    Steven makes the point of wouldn't want a current HBOM to contain the removed one.   "Ancestor of" has historical context.   More derivation.   Consider adding in "Replaced By" - and then define in knowledge graph.    This is going to matter for safety as well as for complicance.    Software equivalent of "Patched By" 
      - Production declaration:   Batch X has these 6 ingredients.    101 - adding;   102 - removing;   
      - Example:  Laptop with serial number, but ingredients inside have been changed, and that needs update.   Laptop X with motherboard Y;  service happens and replaces with motherboard Z. 
      - Idea of a replacement - what is the purpose of it - why did it occur.   Updating or changing for lifecycle management support.   May be more relevant to the processes we are discussing.   Support issue - are we struggling and fixing. 
      - Concept of individiual (ie. serial number) as well as concept of batch (set of things being described).
      - Hardware change vs. lifecycle component.    Should this be in hardware lifecycle? 
      - Lifecycle event of a kind?    Should there be maintenance in lifecyclescopetype?  or will runtime cover it?   other?    * Tentative assumption - work with contains and lifecycle scope. 
      - Individividuals in a batch - it's a grouping of things.   Possibly using a bundle to describe a set of things. 
      - In hardware profile?   or should be physical and virtual?
* Need to keep in mind the "operations" - esp. crtical infrastructure. 
   * Example of change of RAM in a server;   replacement of a blade;  etc. 
   * Maintenance logging - why was this done, when was it done, mass field for aerospace example. 
   * For organization that have to track - making it easier (with tools),  conformance should go up. 

## Action Items
* Continue reviewing Cubesat
