  - Attendance: 33
  - Lead by Phil Odence
  - Minutes from last approved

<!-- end list -->

  - Phil will company membership announcement before end of week
  - We will be move General Meeting minutes to GitHub and crowdsource
    during meetings.

## Microsoft and SPDX - Adrian/Steve

  - Microsoft standardizing on SPDX \[Adrian Giglio\]
      - Why SPDX?
          - On ISO standard path
          - Already participating
          - Great group
      - Why build their own tool?
          - Already had tooling
          - Easy to move to SPDX
          - Needed certainty to meet NTiA standards
          - Utilize MS Detection
          - Needed a great range of environments
          - Support for very large, complex build systems; layered
            builds
      - The Tool
          - Built on .Net and available for Windows/Linux/Mac
          - Available as build step in Azure
          - Plan is to open source
          - Pulls OSS data from a variety of build system formats
      - Future
          - Proving by early March, then rolling out across Microsoft
          - Exploring different methods of SBOM distribution including
            web portal
          - Exploring signing with others in the industry

<!-- end list -->

  - MCR Distributing SPDX SBoMs for Microsoft content \[Steve Lasker\]
      - How to distribute secured supply chain components? Specifically
        SBOMs
      - Supply chain artifact challenges:
          - artifacts get promoted across environments, including
            production assets getting pulled from the Internet into
            restricted networks
          - private virtual networks within cloud infrastructure
      - Solution: Validation artifacts need to travel together with the
        supply chain objects
          - by default, SBOM might get blocked from being accessed due
            to "airgapped" / VNet setup
          - instead, create a private registry within each vnet; with
            shared internal registry hosting all artifacts + SBOMs, then
            promoted into each vnet
      - ORAS: need signatures to be separable, verifiable, able to be
        validated, prior to bringing artifact / binary into the
        environment
          - Microsoft built this for Azure Container Registry, but
            customers share with other registries and other
            infrastructure; registries should be a broader standard =\>
            OCI Artifacts, ORAS Artifacts
          - Signatures and SPDX SBOMs get attached to the graph
          - ACR support for ORAS Artifacts today =\> customers can store
            SPDX SBOMs today:
            <https://aka.ms/acr/supply-chain-artifacts>
      - Opportunity: having SPDX document travel alongside the target
        artifact; CLI that can natively push / pull / validate SPDX
        SBOMs to Registries
      - What does the SPDX community want to see in an SBOM?
          - recording EULA text?
          - something validated at the time the content is used? =\>
            needs to be accessible along with the artifact itself

<!-- end list -->

  - Questions/Comments
      - Dick: what about having vulnerability disclosures together as a
        part of the distributed info?
          - Appreciate that the SPDX structure enables describing all
            the pieces of what went into a software build in the first
            place =\> static information at a point in time
          - Scan results are things that you learn about over time =\>
            e.g. might learn later about a problem that was discovered
            after it was shipped
          - Scan results will continue to be additive, whereas the SBOM
            itself doesn't change
          - Dick: some vendors are running scans and producing NVD
            reports together with vendor's findings; making that info
            available together with the SBOM. During customer risk
            assessments, they can see beforehand if a CVE is reported
            =\> if shows up in the disclosure, that helps address the
            risk.
          - Scan results, etc., could be attached to the other documents
            that are included in the registry
          - Eventually, looking to have a web-browsable portal to easily
            access these documents. But, the automation is the
            interesting part.
      - Just this morning, this was announced to be becoming part of an
        OCI working group; previously getting proven within the ORAS
        project
      - Sebastian: Ostree (Fedora):
        <https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Changes/OstreeNativeContainer>
      - Signature format: shipped in Notary v2, but working on expanding
        via conversations with the broader community. Needs to be able
        to be validated broadly.
      - Dick: NIST workshop that took place this week: ability to
        distribute SDLC evidence and policy data. Will that be part of
        this?
          - Viewing this as plumbing / core infrastructure, in a generic
            way; new types will emerge for what types of artifacts are
            used to be deployed / promoted on this infrastructure
          - Because it's generic / abstracted, any new type can be
            hosted on this infrastructure

 

## Tech Team Report – Kate/Gary/Others

  - Tools
      - New release of SPDX Java Tools available at
        <https://github.com/spdx/tools-java/releases/tag/v1.0.3>
  - Specification
      - Focused on the Core modeling
      - Made progress on collections, packages, and document definitions
        and relationships
      - Significant testing of the model with different use cases and
        serialization considerations

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Pau/Steve

  - License List version 3.15 was released and published to
    <https://spdx.org/licenses> on Nov. 14
  - Shortened month for meetings due to Thanksgiving holiday in US
  - Warner Losh presented to the team about FreeBSD's use of SPDX
    short-form license identifiers:
    <https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mRWj7DCiicK57BqD4XzUMSZs51TpUUIYIgI-UcB8XDw/edit#slide=id.p>

 

## Outreach Team Report -

  - No update, but Sebastian sent an email to the General Meeting list
    with notes on behalf of the team.

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck/Synopsys
  - Adrian Digli, Microsoft
  - Steve Lasker, Microsoft
  - Sebastian Crane
  - Steve Winslow, Boston Technology Law
  - Dick Brooks, REA
  - Rich Steenwyk, GE Healthcare
  - Annie
  - Brad Goldring, GTC
  - Jeff Schutt, Cisco
  - David Edelsohn, IBM
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, Red Hat
  - Aveek Basu, NextMark Printers
  - Marc Gisi, Windriver
  - Gary O’Neall, SourceAuditor
  - Philippe Ombrédanne- nexB
  - Dick Brooks
  - Alex Rybek
  - Brend Smits, Philips
  - Christopher Lusk, Lenovo
  - Christopher Phillips
  - Fellow Jitser
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, Red Hat
  - Mashid
  - Kendra Morton
  - Marco
  - Majira
  - Michael Herzog- nexB
  - Mike Nemmers
  - Molly Menoni
  - Paul Madick, Jenzabar
  - Rose Judge, VMWare
  - Vicky Brasseur, Wipro

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
