# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-05-16

## Attendees

* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Armin Tanzer
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Ivana Avanasava
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kaufmann
* Kate Stewart
* Kevin Conner
* Kevin Cressman
* Maximilian Huber
* Meret Behrens
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Monks
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Stephen Masterson
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Tim Miller

### Regrets
* William Bartholemew

## Agenda
- Feedback from OSS Summit NA
- Agents and Actors - issue #94
- Review of RC2 open issues and pull requests

## Notes

### OSS Summit Feedback
* Next time provide more overview of model & relationships.
* Questions on AI, Security, & Licensing - interest in carryin ginf the want without carrying stuff they are not interested.
* Documentation on profiles,  and how to make contributions isn't clear. 
* Getting documentation generation for repo, is going to be needed. 

### Other feedback
* Cleaning up extensions is feedback from Ivana (outside conference)
* Alexios - gave presentation to automotive org - like extensions.    Metadata about an SBOM is something they're looking for as well. 

### Agents and Actors
* Reference: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/94
* Reference: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/202
* AI:  Nisha to take a stab at a PR (Max willing to help).
  * PR ready now at https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/340
* Decision that we'll close the 94 & 202, after the new PR from Nisha is merged.
* More complex idea of identity and identity management will be deferred to 3.1 or later. 

### CreationInfo
* Discussion on whether it should be optional or not,  validation could be complicated without a profile. 
* With profile, works as it did, before it was claimed to be optional.
* If trying to store element in a graph vs. transmit in a serialized fashion. 
* Requirement:  Need a mandatory set of validation information, when communicating between parties.
* 4 options in #306 + add profile.   (tweak on #1);   Note we need to make it concise in serialization.   Different # address different things. 
* Agreed that there are 4 model choices:
    1. CreationInformation all optional for all element
    2. CreationInformation all required all element
    3. CreationInformation Only required for Collection (which includes SPDX Document)
    4. CreationInformation Only required for Collections + have a profile which would require elements to have CreationInformation on each elements
* Agreed that there are 2 serialization specification choices:
    A. Serialize the model - just the concrete classes
    B. Create serialization "structure" to remove duplications
* Of the above, the following combinations make sense for a decision.  We will make the decision next week.
    * 1A, 2A, 2B, 3A, 4A, 4B
* Next steps:  
    * Sean to write up an example showing his approach at this point for serialization specification choice B. 
    * Gary to write up a draft PR for model choice 4

### RC2 issues and pull requests
* Reference: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A3.0-rc2
   * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/312 - Kate to fold into next Relationships PR
* Reference: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+milestone%3A3.0-rc2
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/304 - @max - is your comment a blocker or nice to have?    comment update
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/307 - want to see "purpose" retained as well, per prior discussions.  

## Next Meeting
*  Close on Creation Info options, & then review what's left for RC2
