# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-02-28

## Attendees
* Armin Tanzer
* Bob Martin
* Brandon Lum
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Hewett
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Karsten Klein
* Keith Zantow
* Kevin Cressman
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Maximilian Huber
* Meret Behrens
* Rahul Tiwari
* Rose Judge
* Peter Monks
* Sean Barnum 
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen


## Agenda
* SPDX 2.X JSON Documentation in Spec (see email thread https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-tech/message/4993)
* Proposed SPDX Build Profile PR ready https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/91 (Brandon)
* SPDX 3.0 Naming Analysis (Gary)
* SPDX 2.3 --> 3.0 Relationship review (Kate)
* Open Items from https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/74

## Notes
* JSON Schema
* Do we need to respect the current JSON 2.X schema (re: controversial terms - aka shortcut fields) should they be allowed
* Should they be documented in the 2.3 specification formally
* Shortcut fields for serializations should be considered for 3.0 
* Serialization committee are meeting Thursday at 6am PST.   Concern raised about time of meeting and participation.    Is it JSON or JSON-LD?   Sean: should be no restrictions to make JSON-LD to be JSON.
   * Gary:  Express JSON with a external context file,  that describes the LD elements, with the JSON file.   You'll achieve a lot of compatbility.  Sean agrees.    Want to make sure don't do silly things with name.  Context prevents silly things. 
   * David: If you take the approach that property names are purely local to classes, then there is no possibility of collisions across classes or namespaces.  The common practice of defining "Properties" independently of classes thwarts that approach.
   * Serialization meeting is at 9am EST on Thursday  (invitation in https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-tech/message/4987)
   * Canonicalization meeting is at 9am EST on Friday
   
* 2.X JSON Shortcut discussion
   * Related to shortcuts that were used in addition to a relationship. 
   * DocumentDescribes - represents a relationship that points to the structure
   * HasFiles - represents a relationship from a package to a file with contains relationship
   * Issue it causes problems in language bindings.   Current JSON schema includes short cuts.   It is not being consistently used. 
   * These fields are not actually part of the 2.X specification published document.  JSON schema is in the github repo though. 
   * If you take the approach that property names are purely local to classes, then there is no possibility of collisions across classes or namespaces.  The common practice of defining "Properties" independently of classes thwarts that approach.
   * If this is just a serialization, can do a one way translation into the logical model.    
   * No reason to require the shortcut output.
   * Next steps:  Update JSON schema to explain indirection.    Should we deprecate these fields?
   * Joshua: With the ability to "batch" relationship, I don't think they are necessary anymore?
   * Spreadsheets are still being used extensively, and should be considered as part of serialization.
   * Machine readability would be JSON (tool interoperability),  and human readable (variant of tag value).
   * Joshua notes YAML is a strict superset of JSON, so any YAML parser can parse JSON document.
   * Concensus:  These 2 shortcut fields should be deprecated in schema. Define as only necessary for reading.   (putting into 2.3.1).   What we're doing is clarifying what is in the repo, but its not formally part of the spec.
   * Keith: We're seeing JSON most used serialization format, so having it as a first class citizen in the spec would be great.    Kate:  we do have a link in spec to the schema in 2.3  (The JSON Schema for SPDX can be found in the SPDX Spec Git Repository Schema directory )
   * Maximillian & David volunteer to do a review of the JSON 2.3 schema.    Will circle back with Gary.
   * Keith will do a PR to put in the depricated language.   Gary will update the OWL document after the PR is approved. 

* Build Profile PR is ready for review.
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/91
  * Need relationship discussions: 
buildInputOf: Input to the build instance
buildOutputOf: Output of the build instance
buildConfigOf: Build configuration of the build instance
buildToolOf: Build tool used in the build instance
buildInvokedBy: Agent that invoked the build
buildOnBehalfOf: Person for which buildInvokedBy is acting on behalf of
buildHostOf: Element in which the build instance runs on
buildChildOf: Build instance that was created from another build instance

* Security Profile is going to be adding "advisory"  more details at: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZT_w3HiW6LJjouRlw3xHXPnmy7ArwOdlw4vpzIjS9_o/edit

Migration guide:  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Xn6-BnDXRV0pLxLuj1-N_UvTGo6AUg4pSmX2UJ7VLbQ/edit#gid=1369551336
Migration document:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-olHRnX1CssUS67Psv_sAq9Vd-pc81HF8MM0hA7M0hg/edit#
   * Looking for feedback in both.   Add in comments. 
   * Things we want to change in the SPEC create issues in model-3-spec
   * Link to these issues. 
   * Bob & Sean will take a pass through this. 
   * Thomas to take a pass and ask William take a pass through this
   * Kate to ask Profile leads (Brandon, Thomas, Gopi, ....)
   * Send it out to mailing list after rationales are filled in.    
Keith - would be dealing with this in the tools, so most should be straight forward.
Thomas 

* Open Items
Package SourceInfo field - not in 3.0? 
   * https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.2.2/package-information/#712-source-information-field
   * Looks for oversight - View from call,  put it in Package, and put SourceInfo back into the specification.
* Some concern over PackageVerificationCode & Exclusion.   Verified using - needs to be defined.  Need to decide if carry forward.    Need to formally revisit this.   How verify what received is what is described.  
   * Sean:  give nominal, and current what not able to convey.  Need clarity.   What is missing, and where would it help fill gap. 
   * What is cardinality of VerifiedUsing - cardinality. 

Next week:
    * Identities  (Sean & David to meet between meetings and report book)
    * Migration Guide
