# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-01-24

## Attendees
* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Armin Tanzer
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Kevin Cressman
* Maximilian Huber
* Meret Behrens
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Monks
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Demo of SPDX 3 generation (Max)
* Move extensions to their own profile (Max)
* Identity closure (William, Sean, David, Gary) 
* SPDX 2.3 Update Clarification of Package Verification Code ( https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/828 ) (Rose) - closed
* SPDX 3.0 - Contributing guidelines - first view,  1 week review, then if no issues at next weeks meeting, merge: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/75

## Notes
* Demo of SPDX 3 generation (Max, Merit, Armin)
   * Following spreadsheet of how SPDX 2 --> SPDX 3.0 (Migration Mapping)
   * Note:  Licensing Profile is missing - so CC0-1.0  - inheriting.  The license displays the SPDX data license, not the package license, although it is included with each package.
   * Creation information being moved to toplevel is an option for serializations. 
   * David notes: https://github.com/davaya/spdx-3-model/blob/serialization/serialization/Payloads/sdoc-v1.0.json  An example of inheriting creation information from the top level
   * please give feedback on https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/74
   
* Move Extensions to their own profile
  * Use where adopter wishes to extend SPDX outside of default community to provide additional data or prototyping data that eventually should be promoted to core.
  * Proposal to move out of core without changing definition.
  * Changes direction of arrow for optional element. Element becomes stand-alone data that points back to the element instead of optional information added to the core element.
  * Atomicity? with extensions tightly bound to elements can't separate them and lose the information that was attached.
  * Map previously enforced that only one instance attached to element.
  * Use cases similar to annotations proposal for 2.0 of type other.
  * Add optional properties to annotations instead?
    * When does one use Annotation versus Extension?
    * Extension is an abstract class defining structured properties.
    * If optional extension is missing, one may not know if some information is missing.
 * Tentatively biased to "extensions" being their own profile, but considering for another week.
   * 1) separate to own profile
   * 2) direction of arrow: property of element or separate
* David & Sean - to frame in terms of use cases for direction of arrow.   
* Sean to work through though experiments.   Kate suggests thinking OSCAL as an example.

* Identity:  Determining if there are any last concerns?
  * Does model take into account, tooling as identities. 
  * How process should be documented is still open ( 3.0 suffice?  ideally targetted this to 3.1 longer conversation, so  punting for now. 
* Is what we have good enough for 3.0 and can we build on it?
* Need to address Issue #35 - Actor/Element....    Created by can be self referential. 
* David not concerned about self referential.    Concern arount "entity" being able to be individually numberered.   Identities have individual numbers.  Bots have individual numbers, so should be able to included it as is. 
* Discussion of loops in implementation:   desire for tooling implementers to avoid the loops (other than self referential) - Note:  Maximillian is showing a screen shot, that will be embedded in issue.   Sean, should be no cycle in entity.   Alexios: it's an entity, rather than a pointer.    
* Sean:  UML is representing the model,  and type of entity or subclass.   Diagram may not be correct. 
* David:  Model is not showing the serialization.  We are not embedding elements inside other elements.
* Gary: Should we change this to be an "arrow",  Sean worried about clarity of diagram.   Cuts through too many things.   Conceptually arrow should be there.   Confirm with William.   Note this is only object property have there.   Its not embedded.  
* Max: Need to say pointer to entity, before define what an entity is.  
    * Sean: Entity must be elements for it to work.    
* Sebastian: Model diagram is not reflecting the built up concensus/understanding.  
    * We need to work on a method to sharing diagram changes.   Process oriented.  But need William for this discussion
* Gary there may be 
* Should be an arrow but how to express it given the 2 dimensional diagram remains an open question.
