# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-04-04

## Attendees

* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Armin TÃ¤nzer
* Banula Kumrage
* Brandon Lum
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeremiah Stoddard
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Kelein
* Kate Stewart
* Kevin Cressman 
* Maximilian Huber
* Meret Behrens
* Michael Herzon
* Nisha Kumar
* Prasad Iyar
* Sean Barnum
* Stephen Masterson
* Thomas Steenbergen 
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* New Partipant Introductions
   * Jeremiah:  works for INL, working on CISA SBOMs
   * Stephen: Compliance Analysis Fellow,  PEGA Systems,  Developing SBOM program
* Update from offline meeting on migration document (Kate, Sean, Gary) - 5 to 10 minutes
* Poll for interest in creating a "Software as a Service" profile - 5 minutes
* Updates from subteams:
    * Serialization
    * Canonicalization
    * Defects
    * Implementers
    * AI and Data
    * Functional Safety
* Late addition: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/61 (move examples to folders with versions) Nisha
* Build profile
* Discussion on relationships

## Notes

* Joshua asking about timestamps, and how to handle in context of reproducibility
* Sean is working on glossary PR - planning on dropping edits in comments.   Mail to tech list, and comments in PR. 

### Offline Meeting on Migration Document
* Defining Document property issue https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/169
* - Migration document
   - few errors fixed on call.   
   - external document reference migration session is in the issues. 
   * Sean will be covering Rationale update. 

### Interest in creating "Software as a Service" profile
* Triggered by discussion following OpenChain presentation
* Nisha: also 3 working groups working on "Cloud SBOM" under CISA's SBOM umbrella
* CISA Community Cloud SBOM running notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZpTtsY0H2SwfNRq6qUzLMiWLQ8OwlhmJeg_M0cxrOiQ/edit (meeting times for subgroups are in the doc)
   * Classic,  API open,  Stack transparency
   * What data would a service provide share for risk decisions.
   * Nisha to send Gary info on how to join/listen in. 
* Collect anyone interested in contributing
  * Gary O'Neall gary@sourceauditor.com
  * Prasad Iyer (Cisco)
  * Willliam substitute
  * Nisha (will email)
  * Ivana (iyovcheva@vmware.com)
  * Steve Masterson -  stephen.masterson@pega.com interest of Docker images providing services 
  * Banula Kumarage (banula.19@cse.mrt.ac.lk)
  * Adolfo 
  * Thomas Steenbergen opensource@steenbe.nl
* William provided some ideas to capture for the SaaS: what certifications the service has (e.g. FedRAMP High), and privacy considerations (e.g. GDPR-compliant).
* Jeremiah: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZpTtsY0H2SwfNRq6qUzLMiWLQ8OwlhmJeg_M0cxrOiQ/edit
* AI:  Gary to send out a doodle poll to those who provide emails.


### Updates from subteams:
*  Serialization (David)
  *  Blank nodes can be used for creation info, so that they can be re-used within a single document, but not outside document.
  * JSON property names will be adjusted to align with the model.   Gary: notes that this was raised in 2.1 from singular to plurals.   David raised that it inconsistent (element and externalRef have plurals, to and verifiedUsing do not).    Sean:  best practices it to go "singluar" in these cases. 
  * In Migration document - will be adding a section on serializations and add this rationale. 

* Canonicalization (David)
  * Missed a couple of meetings.   Likely to merge Canonicalization/Serialization. 

* Defects  (Thomas) 
  * Model is stable,  JSON schema being worked out. 
  * Writing out properties, with inheritance from core,  not usable for end user.    William indicates includes in subclasses should work in his tooling.
  * Model documentation is going to be different from User space documentation.   
  * Different combination of core things, may be required.
  * Specificiation is reference.    Use case documentation will need be handled separately.
  * Thomas to look at Armin & Meret - markdown draft: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/168  
  * Security is on critical path. 

* Implementers
   * SPDX 3.0 Miniconference - May 9th 9AM PDT.  Vancouver & Virtual   - you can register for $0 as virtual attendee via https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/register/#registration-rates
   * Overview of profiles -  Q&A from tooling groups. 
   * Rose to remind folk for prep.

* AI and Data (Gopi/Kate)
   * AI profile branch available to review;  couple of suggestions
   * Dataset profile branch in prep.
   * Shaping for the field from core is currently issue for AI & Dataset profiles
   * Alexios has noted example of shaping in software profile. https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/main/model/Software/Classes/File.md (introduced in https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/170)

* Licensing Profile (Alexios/Steve)
   * Branch work in progress.
   * Shaping with core & software needs to be resolved.
   
* Functional Safety  (Nicole/Kate)
  * Looking to add 1 relationship type to 3.0  ("Evidence of")
  * Several "potentially obsolete" relationship types are useful for Functional Safety
  
* Usage Profile (Kate)
   * Core is missing some of the 2.3 - so looking at introducing skeleton usage profile to achieve feature parity.
    
* Issues:
    * Need to resolve how - NOASSERTION/NONE handled between profiles. 


### spdx-examples classify by release
   * see (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/61)  for 2.2 vs. 2.3 
   * goal is to add in 3.0,  with view to being able to present in 3.0 generated documentation. 
   * would like to see in more validated examples with snippet.   
   * Nisha also has a PR open to implement CI for validating SPDX docs: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/59
   * Full document include is possible, investigating subset extraction is possible. 
   * Serialization wants to have example of single element being serialized.

### model updates
  * merging 170

### Build Profile
* Relationships need to be reconciled with ones in the core.   
  * Ancestor (swap from to - gives descendent) may be able to handle
  * Fan out is an issue, so we may want to revisit which we pick up.   (between ancestor vs. descendent)
  * Build instances created over time, so not know all at one point in time. 
  * Some discussion if build-invoked-by & build-on-behalf-of relationships should be properties.   Is the element known and fixed at the time element is created, then it should possibly be a property.   Multiples doesn't automatically mean relationships, as you can have array (multiple instances of fields).   Inherent and imutable, recommend as default to properties.   Amend if property is edited?  
  * Some properties can be determined at build time,  some requires investigation.    Specifically for a hosted build environment.   From discussion - leave this as a relationship. 
  
  * Deconflict Build Date vs. EndTime....  Decision is to go forward with Build Start Time & Build End Time in 3.0.   Will need to reflect that Usage Profile will use same.  
  * When there is precision to the time, best practices when Timestamp is used, is to use "Time" rather than "Date" 
  * For Parameters - list of key:value pairing.  Names and semantics on a parameter.   Key must be unique. 
  * Two alternatives:  Alternative: BuildParamater class with property "parameter" and another property "value" with type string;  Alternative: Generic "Map" or "Dictionary" class with property "key" and another property "value".    
  * Alexios - lining behind having key,value pairs.    
  * Generic string value pairing as a dictionary entry, and then allow a list.   
  * Some discussion about "DictionaryEntry" as name,  and leave it as is, until someone comes up with better proposal or use case for duplicate keys.

### Relationships
* Kate to meet with William, and work through draft proposal back to group.    
    
