# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2023-07-18

## Attendees
* Armin Tänzer
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Holger Frydrych
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Prasad Iyar
* Rob Craig
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
*  Issue #365: Clarify which profiles to include in a Collection element
*  Issue #345: Package Verification Code
* Review security diagram to be used as base for other profiles' examples (Rose + Jeff)
* GitHub Integration (question re: versions)

## Notes
* Issue #365: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/365 
  * William: Describing the element itself.
  * Armin: Different elements, supporting different profiles,  so supporting different creation.
  * Gary: Compaction algorithm from Sean.  See #357   Any adjustments need to make? 
  * Sean: Doesn't apply to model, but can apply outside, and makes it more compact.  Expansion should be able to be lossless as well.   These requirements are important.   Should not impact the ecosystem for exchange.  The "How is the detail in #357)
  * Nisha: On the surface the algorithm looks reasonable.
  * Max: Concern it might be more complex.
  * Sean:  Other "methods" may be more problematic.   Level of compaction we get is proportional to homogenity of the information you have.
  * David: Decoupling collections from creation info compaction allows all elements serialized together to be compacted, without being collection members.  Serializing 10 files that are not members of a collection is the use case to test.
  * Nisha: How does a tool implementer know if you're receiving a compacted or not set.
  * Sean: Add property to serialization to denote this.
  * David: One way is to have serialized data have a namespace map property that is info,  creation info that is optional.   
  * Sean: Not sure that this will handle independent elements, without the collection level. 
  * Max: Concern it might not be able to handle som optional fields like "Created Using" = NUL (since might have been compaction to be safe)
  * Details of algorithm can be discussed at serialization meeting. 
    * Is it worth extra complexity for partial inheritance case?  
    * Value of compaction in general?   Saving a small id string on every element.... anonymous node.  It's a non issue for JSON LD,  rather more an issue for the other formats.   RDF semantics?  or another approach?

* GitHub Integration
  * There are scenarios where exact version numbers are unknown. 
  * Which is preferred option:
* Export version range as package version
* Logic works out lowest version number that matches a range
* Not allow export in that situation.  Only allow when lock file and fixed version numbers. 
  * SPDX does allow a lot of flexible for version, but it is technically valid per the spec. 
     * If export with a lock file, will prefer fixed version.   But when just a range - what to do? 
     * Gary would prefer to see a range used, but it may not meet the minimums.
     * Highlight - NTIA minimum SBOM checker - look for ranges to provide a warning.
     * Package managers have different handling it from a range.
     * How provide hash on version range?   Others not able to parse if range? 
     * Version strings are varied in real world, so probably already ranges.   Range is better than nothing.  Nothing is an infinite range. 
     * would we publish an ammendment to  2.3 and explain the semantics and structure of version ranges?  Something to consider for 3.0.

* Doc Generation
   * William to reach out to Alexios about spec parser. 
  
## Decisions
*

## Action Items
*

## Next SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2023-07-25
* SPDX Lite
