# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-01-31

## Attendees

* Armin Tänzer
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Joshua Watt
* Keith Zantow
* Kevin Cressman
* Matt Roberts
* Maximilian Huber
* Meret Behrens
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Monks
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Extensions
* Circular definition - identity and element
* Identity
* Process?
* SPDX 3.0 - Contributing guidelines -  merge: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/75?
* Refresh punch list from PRs

## Notes
* Circular definition - identity and element
* To define Element, you need CreationInformation, you need an Entity, which is an Element.
* Crossing Element, and Entity across modules may be an issue.
* In .NET implementation there are separate files but there is no limitation in them referencing each other.
* David showed how the concept evolves from self-referential property to struct to a sub-class
* Not about implementability, Maximilian will re-examine the issue
* Sean: In ontology concepts are defined, and then edges, so all of the concepts exist when you create the link between them
* Name optional?
* In Tag/Value does that mean that there is nothing before colon
* Sean: No, everything still has an identifier
* William: Not all elements in SPDX 2.x have names, some elements do, and profiles can constrain elements to requiring name. 
* Identity & Tool
* Need for minimal compromise to move forward with 3.0
* Sebastian: Current isn't minimal because we can't move Tool down without it being a breaking change
* Introducing Process and separating Tool (what) and Process (instance of what) may help clarify
* Some debate over whether it is a peer of Tool and Identity or a peer of Person and Organization
* SPDX 2.x says tool is a "what"
* "SoftwareAgent" as a potential name instead of "Process" or "Bot"
* Questions:
* Agreement that SPDX 2.x says tool is a what?
* Do we need, now, a concept for instance of a what? Keep in mind Identity is concrete.
* Question for Gary and Kate (and others) next week: Do we split createdBy into createdBy and createdUsing?
*  createdBy: Identity(Person/Org/SoftwareAgent) and createdUsing: Artifact(Tool)
