# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-04-18

## Attendees
* Armin Tanzer
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Keith Zantow
* Matt Roberts
* Maximillian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Meret Behrens
* Peter Monk
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Stephen Masterson
* Steve Winslow
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Conclude relationships discussion
* Security profile - relationships vs. properties and VEX status
* NONE and NOASSERTION for 3.0 
* Issues review

## Minutes

### Relationships
* More than just dependency relationships
* RelationshipScope (sub class of relationship) which  can be used by inputs and outputs
  * William: I would call that a ScopedRelationship (agreement from group)
* DependencyRelationship is subclass of ScopeRelationship
* Dependency, input and out also can refer to relationship
* None always should be associated with no assertion.
* There always is a scope type but it may not be known.
* Runtime or Opertions?
* Runtime is associated with software.
  * William: I don't think runtime is that odd for hardware, hardware runs..
* Remove NoAssertion from ScopeType
* Should scopedrelationship be subsumed by relationship because it's optional
* Kate: Context rather than Scoped?
* Sean: LifecycleScope instead of Scope (i.e. "LifecycleScopedRelatioship" and "LifecycleScopeType")
  * Sean: Context is too broad for this -- we are talking about lifecycle scope specifically. There's all types of meanings of scope that aren't about lifecycle. Whether we use scope or context is not that big of a deal as long as we refer to the lifecycle part of it
* DependencyRelationship: DependencyLinkType --> is noAssertion needed? Agreement to take it out
  * Sean: should it be SoftwareDependencyRelationship to distinguish between software and hardware? Agreement.
  * DependencyRelationship --> SoftwareDependencyRelationship  and Linkage --> softwareLinkage and DependencyLinkType --> SoftwareDependencyLinkType
* DependencyConditionalityType: agreement to remove noAssertion
  * Should we move this up to Relationship? No
* Any objections to what we have so far?
  *What is the difference between prerequisite and required? Prereq maps to different maven lifecycle scopes
* The default for relationship completeness is incomplete (discussed last week)
* Kate will work on PR for the relationship changes we discussed today (unless Armin beats her to it)

### Security Profile
* VEX statements are not working with current model
* Considering how to encode this type of data: 1) as a property 2) as a relationship
* Thomas: We choose to implement the minimal elements of Vex and not a specific standard
* How much do we follow core and how much do we go our own way as a profile?
* Mailing list discussion on this: https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-tech/topic/spdx_defects_spdx_tech/98329292
* Sean: a proposed approach where we don't define a new element for a VEX doc. VEX asserts relationship between package and vulnerability with details (status) and fairly small other number of metadata types
  * vulnerability affects package y covers majority of VEX documents
* Thomas: can argue that all of the vulnerbaility categorizations are statuses
  * Sean: not categorizations, they are classifications. VEX is associating.  Not relationship - its providing detailed characterization on the vulnerability itself. 
  * Rather than having a separate property for each vulnerability categorization, <...didn't catch it>
  * Jeff: one complexity to consider is that for each of these ratings will change over time. just because they change over time means we wont want to know what they were previously. Yes, the software is not changing but the vuln data will. The timestamp is important.
* Sean: relationships right now have completeness and a to and a from but they should also have a start time and end time (this would address Jeff's concern)
* Gary: we do have creation time of the metadata that contains relationship
* Jeff: The same component may have different statuses in different sub-components within one product
* Relationships are typially listed at the bottom of the documents and might be missed if intended to be human readable - will need a visualization tool to show them all 
* If you subclass from relationship you can add properties there. You can add fields semantically different from creation information.
* Gary: Jeff's point (about different statuses in the same product) might require relationships to relationships (something William has proposed before).   Relationship may be more appropriate, even though usually on side of properties.   
*  Sean: Properties are more straightforward - you can also do an annotation for a relationship, doesn't have to be just on an element.   Can Thomas provide a serialization example in the different flavors.  
* Max: We are in a very high level and esoteric discussion. I think we need to have real world examples and usecases.
* Request for Thomas to mail out the whole example for consideration, with each different way.   Will send out after tomorrow's meeting.    Draft various cases. 
* David - About diagram:   Product X containing package Y;   new version has new id & new package.   How granular are the ids on Products, IDs & Packages.    Advisories going both ways.   
* Thomas: has reference to build profile - build start & build end.   Published date may have different than Released date.   Build end overlaps with ReleasedTime. 
* Kate notes Date fields - should be named as "Time" in spec.  Henk chimed in to add clarity. 

### NONE and NOASSERTION
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/76 and https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/71
* In SPDX 2.3 - there are enumerations and types that can have NONE & NOASSERTION.   NONE - someone actually conciously evaluated and there is "NONE".    How handle license type of "NONE" and "NOASSERTION".   This is tripping up some of the reasoners out there.   Do we get rid of it?  create subtypes?  how handle?
* Max: can wrap something that is optional in NONE & NOASSERTION?  Would this work for RDF. 
* Sean: Two different issues in play - string based value out of an enumeration.   ("known unknown").  Large % of file is NOASSERTION. 
* Gary: History is lawyers needed to see it as explicit for NOASSERTION.   Sean understands the exception makes sense.   Understand "what it means" and "what it doesn't means". 
* David:  I want to make an active assertion its NOASSERTION.   Previous use should be asserted to be "unknown"
* Nisha: What ever metadata is not found - translates to "I don't know" -- translates to NOASSERTION.   Automation that is trying to differentiate between what is there but empty.   Missing is NOASSERTION & not there is NONE.
* Max:  NONE is used in other places than license expressions.     Can't assert found everything. 
* Sean:  NONE & NOASSERTION semantics - how convey when object?   becomes tricky. 
* Gary:  Steve is proposing a special subclass of "NOASSERTION" License.  This is not what we did in SPDX 2.3.   SPDX:NONE was the object.   If we merge in Steve's proposal, it will be different.   May need to be a concrete instance of the type. 
* Sean:  Recommends - For any property, define an instance for NONE and NOASSERTION.  Put into ontology.
* Gary:  Concrete instance as the type.   Need to describe an instance in markdown files.    Use concrete instance rather than subclass. (Sean is refered to as "individuals" in modeling ontology - don't need to worry about SHAQL shapes, etc).
* Max:  Will go think about, and continue discussion in the issue. 
* Gary requesting that Sean take a look into the property concluded license in https://spdx.org/rdf/terms/
