# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-04-25 

## Attendees
* Adolfo García Veytia 
* Alexios Zavras
* Armin Tanzer
* Brandon Lum
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Jeff Schutt
* Francis Perron
* Gary O'Neall
* Peter Monks
* Karsten Klein
* Keith Zantow
* Kobota
* Maximillian Huber
* Meret Behrens
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Stephen Masterson
* William Bartholomew
* Henk Birkholz

## Agenda
* Spec generation
* Profile blockers
  * Security profile - questions from last Friday's April 21st workshop (Added by Thomas S)
  * Adding more types to ExternalReference (Added by Thomas S)
  * Others?
* Core blockers
  * Issue/PR review 

## Minutes

### Spec generation
- work in markdown;
- spdx/spec-parser should generate docs in mkdocs input format (see example https://github.com/iamwillbar/spdx-3-model/blob/site/docs/reference/Core/Classes/Annotation.md)
- mkdocs then generates HTML pages/website
- William for the next meeting a GitHub action to help facilitate doc generation via MkDocs. 
- William: Generating docs from a pull request will not be in RC but hopefully in GA release

### Security profile - questions from last Friday's  April 21st workshop

1. How to update/replace SPDX 3.0 relationships?
```
"elements": [
            //  VEX not affected was published for vulnerability CVE-1 but after further research tsteenbe concluded  
           Carol Compression Engine v3.1 is vulnerable and recommends user to upgrade.
            {
                "@type": "VulnerabilityVexRelationship",
                "@id": "urn:spdx.dev:vex-3",
                "relationshipType": "affected",
                "to": "urn:spdx.dev:cve-1",
                "from": ["urn:carol-compression-engine-3.1"],
                "actionStatement": "Upgrade to version 1.3 of ACME application.",
                "vexPublished": "2021-03-10T16:10:50Z",
                "vexLastUpdated": "2021-03-12T11:06:50Z"
            },
            {
                "@type": "relationship",
                "@id": "urn:spdx.dev:relationship-1",
                "relationshipType": "amends",
                "to": "urn:spdx.dev:vex-2",
                "from": ["urn:spdx.dev:vex-3"]
            },
           {
               "@type": "Relationship",
               "@id": "urn:spdx.dev:vulnActorRelationship-2",  
               "relationshipType": "issuedBy",  
                "to": "urn:spdx.dev:tsteenbe",
                "from": ["urn:spdx.dev:epss-1"],
                "startTime": "2021-03-10T17:20:25Z",
                "endTime": "2021-03-10T17:20:25Z"
        }
]
```
From Henk:
    * supplements: an opaque statement that provides additional information about another referenced opque statement 
    * replaces: adds an opaque fresh statement and renders a referenced opaque statement stale 
    * refreshes: a non-opaque statement that states that a referenced opaque or non-opaque statement is still fresh 
    * invalidates: a non-opaque statement that declares another opaque or non-opaque statement stale and therefore not valid anymore
    
William: Use existing amends
Sean: Amends is saying use the newer version, what we want to say that the old one is incorrect/invalid use the newer one.
Dirk: Stale
Sean: Old is wrong, new is right versus the new one changes to old
William: Propose to add a property on the relationship to provide the why of the "amend" relationship
Sean: Potentially simpler to use property instead of a new relationship. Keep the graph simpler
Max: Even if relationships between relationships are possible this makes things more difficult/complex for implement.
Sean: Would assert we not adding anything new. Ability to add relationships between relationships was built-in from the start based on requirements from users
Max: Feels like adding complexity even if it's possible
William: AMENDS relationship current semantics is replacing
Adolfo: two types of uses in VEX: 1. update statements or 2. add new statement. Both are allowed.
Sean: AMENDS should be from:Element to:Element, not to any more specific type. William and Alexios agree.
Jeff: vulnerabilty info gets updated quickly

2. Could we make the suppliedBy relationship more generic? Max informed use it currently only can be used for relationship between artifacts.
  
Background plan to introduce new relationships issuedBy, fixedBy, publishedBy, suppliedBy, foundBy, exploitCreatedBy, coordinatedBy, reportedBy, hasResponsibleParty to describe the various actors involved in the vulnerability disclosure ecosystem. Would like to re-use already defined suppliedBy.  Also we expected above relationships to be defined generic enough to be re-usable by other profiles yet concret enough that SPDX creator know which relationships to use.

Max: Person supplies Artifact versus Persons supplies Vulnerability
Sean: Are the current symantic of SuppliedBy too narrow or can we make it make it more generic?
Wiliam: 1. Should all of those be relationships. Might be know upfront
Sean: Was discussed to make some properties and some relationship. As some of them require relationships it was easier to use relationship for all.
Willaim: 2, Kate and William had a brief discussion about a more generic was to capture this "Agent has a role in". Have a more generic named role relationship with an action type to make the graph simpler
Sean: Would caution against such a apprach of same role relationship with property. Single step filter if use named relationship instead of relationship with properties
Jeff: SuplliedBy is no artifact <-> artifact in Security profile we want do vulnerabilty <-> agent
Max: There is already relationship that matches in meaning why introduce a new security specific relationship

Conclusion: Use suppliedBy also for other elements beyond artifacts. One side should always be agent

  3. Can we extend ExternalIdentifier to add an optional identifierLocator and an issuingAuthority?
  
See below example in which we want to make clear for a given id where one can find additional infromation on the id and which actor issued the identifier.
```
              {
              "@type": "ExternalIdentifier",
              "externalIdentifierType": "cve",
              "identifier": "CVE-2020-2849",
              "identifierLocator": [ "https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-28498", "https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2020-28498" ],
              "issuingAuthority": "urn:spdx.dev:actor-cve.org"
            },
            
            {
              "@type": "ExternalIdentifier",
              "externalIdentifierType": "securityOther",
              "identifier": "GHSA-r9p9-mrjm-926w",
              "identifierLocator": [ "https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-r9p9-mrjm-926w" ],
              "issuingAuthority": "urn:spdx.dev:actor-github.com"
            },
```            
Below example we propose to say identifier tsteenbe is a user account on github.com
```
            {
              "type": "other",
              "identifier": "tsteenbe"
              "identifierLocator": [ "https://github.com" ],
              "issuingAuthority": "urn:spdx.dev:actor-github.com"
            }
```            
Sean: Feedback?
William: Struggled intitally but believe it's consistant. Do understand the use case
Sean: Having the option to explicit state without having to process the identifier string to find out its issuer
Jeff: Having "identifierLocator" will enable users to point to internal repository

DECISION: ok to add to /Core/ExternalIentifier two properties:
identifierLocator: IRI[0..*]
issuingAuthority: IRI[0..1]
  
  4.  Could we add optional timestamps to relationships, e.g. startTime and endTime?
  
See below example where we use startTime to report when actor Kyle Den Hartog reported he found vulnerability with SPDX id cve-1.  We propose adding an endTime  property so responsible parties  can indicate timeframes e.g. Jeff was responsible for handling this vulnerability from April 1 - 11 and then Thomas  took over from April 12 - 15. 
```  
          {
            "@type": "Relationship",
            "@id": "urn:spdx.dev:vulnActorRelationship-1", 
            "relationshipType": "foundBy",
            "to": "urn:spdx.dev:actor-kyle-den-hartog",
            "from": ["urn:spdx.dev:cve-1"],
            "startTime": "2021-03-10T16:20:25Z",
            "endTime": "2021-03-10T16:20:25Z"
        },
```
William: No concerns as long they are optional
Max: What if I parse a dependency graph and I find an endTime on a dependendy <-> dependency relationship
Sean: Yes, who created the file said the dependency relationship ends at a given time
William: Would be extermely rare but I could find where this was useful - in case of the leftpad unpublishing. You can now say the dependency has
Alexios: Can we use better worded validFrom, validTo?
Sean: Technically you can say validFrom, validTo does not always inplies time
Max: Propose to use annotations as cleaner solution
Sean: Would invalidate the independence of element
Max: this is also the case for use AMENDS relationships..
Sean: this is info that something is overwritten, not info on the element
Max: I realy dislike the timestamps on relationships. Can we add "RelationshipWithTimestamps" for that. And let SoftwareRelationship not extend  "RelationshipWithTimestamps"?
Sean: No objections to doing that if that's desired
Jeff: Using "Valid" may confuse readers, does it apply to Element or just the relationship

  5.Can one create relationship on Bundles? (model both relationship directions)?
  Is the following allowed:
      From: Bundle of security information (vulnerability rootElement) relating to a single package or bundle of packages (SBOM)
      From a single package (rootElement) to a bundle of vulnerability information. 
      
6. How to best implement subcomponents see 2.5.2 https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/minimum-requirements-for-vex-508c.pdf. No notion of subcomponents or products in SPDX.

Adolfo proposal
```
{
            "@type": "VulnerabilityVexRelationship",
            "@id": "urn:spdx.dev:vex-2",
            "relationshipType": "notAffected",
            "to": "urn:spdx.dev:cve-1",
            "from": ["urn:carol-compression-engine-3.1"],
            "subcomponents":["urn:carol-compression-engine-subcomponent1", "urn:carol-compression-engine-subcomponent2"],
             "impact": "We are not using this vulnerable part of this library.", 
             "justification": "componentNotPresent", 
             "source": "https://vex-system...", 
             "vexPublished": "2021-03-10T16:10:50Z" 
},
```
### Adding more types to ExternalReference

ExternalReferenceType in 3.0 model is defined as

altDownloadLocation: A reference to an alternative download location.
altWebPage: A reference to an alternative web page.
other: Used when the type doesn't match any of the other options.
securityAdvisory: A reference to the published security advisory (where advisory as defined per ISO 29147:2018). It may contain an impact statement whether a package (e.g. a product) is or is not affected by vulnerabilities.
securityFix: A reference to the source code with a fix for the vulnerability (e.g., a GitHub commit).
securityOther: Used when the reference is security related but doesn't match any of the other types.

Could we add the below types?

bom: A reference to the bill of materials information related to an artifact // Use case Eclipse foundation publishing SPDX SBOMs for all their projects on 
bom-advisories": A reference to API service where up-to-date security advisory statements related to artifacts can be retrieved
bom-vex: A reference to API service where up-to-date VEX statements related to artifacts can be retrieved
binary-artifact:  A reference to binary artifacts related to a package
build-meta: A reference build metadata related to a published package
build-system: A reference build system used to create or publish the package
source-artifact:  A reference to an artifact containing the source for a package
chat: A reference to the instant messaging system used by the maintainer for a package
documentation: A reference to the documentation for a package
funding: A reference to funding informaton related to a package
ssue-tracker: A reference to the issue tracker for a package
mailing-list:  A reference to the mailing list used by the maintainer for a package
metrics:  A reference to metrics related to package such as OpenSSF scorecards.
license: A reference to additional license information related to an artifact
release-notes: A reference to the release notes for a package
release-history: A reference to published list of releases for a package
social-media: A reference to social media chanel for a package or vulnerability
source-artifact:  A reference to an artifact containing the source for a package
support:  A reference to social support channel for a package or vulnerability
vcs :  A reference to version control system related to an artifact
