# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2023-09-19

## Attendees (12)
* Rob Craig
* Sean Barnum
* Gary Oneall
* Maximilian Huber
* David Kemp
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Monks
* William Bartholomew
* Karsten Klein
* Dick Brooks
* Jennie Kauffmann
* David Edelsohn

## Agenda
* Report Namespace discussion - Gary
* Documentation update - William
* Where to start issue
* RC2 issues

## Notes
* Pull 491: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/491 (for review)
* Pull 490: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/490 (for comment/feedback)

*  Update on documentation
  * William will try to get it completed by the end of the weekend, if not, will package up so others can work on it
  * If not, we'll ask others to contribute

* Where to start in a serialization JSON-LD? issue #478- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/478
  * need a way for the producer to tell the reciever
  * discussion moved to Serialization meeting- Thursday 09.21 @ 8 PST
  * review issue prior to call

* RC2 Issues (issues/470)
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/439

## Decisions

## Action Items
* William to complete update on documentation
* Group to review/comment on pull 490/491
* Tech members requested to review open issues and contribute to their closing: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A3.0-rc2+-label%3Aserialization

## Next SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2023-09-26
