# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-02-21

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Armin Tanzer
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks 
* Jeff Schutt
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Karsten Klein
* Keith Zantow
* Kevin Cressman
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Monks
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane

## Agenda
* SPDX 2 --> 3 punchlist ( https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/74 )
* Identity (David & Sean) 
* Profile Status - License, Security, AI, Dataset, Build, Usage
* Open issue in model repository

## Note
* What is the status of regular serialization? (File type)
* Canonicalization is on Friday
* Serialization is TBD - per results of poll.   Looking at use case based approach. 

* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/74 - Updated punch list for 3.0 JSON serialization
  * DocumentNamespace - Is it correct that this converts to NamespaceMap(prefix=SPDX2-DocumentSpdxId, namespace=SPDX2-DocumentNamespace)?
   * Gary recalls a discussion where we could represent a "default namespace" that would be used. That being said, I don't see a way to represent the default namespace using the namespace map. Perhaps others on the call recall how this is done.
   * Main discussion was around using JSON LD which supports default namespace
   * Applies to all serializations, including RDF, JSON, JSON LD, ...
   * Need to look at adding field to SPDX 3?   Depends on serialization formation, where it might need to be.   Recommend expanding IRI out into full and including verbatim. 

* FileType - Will probably be converted to SoftwarePurpose, but the FileType values BINARY, SPDX, AUDIO, IMAGE, TEXT and VIDEO don't have an analogue (yet?). The last four types could maybe be mapped to data?
   * From the 2.3 spec: "File Type is intrinsic to the file, independent of how the file is being used." whereas SoftwarePurpose is more about the intent of how the file is used. So, FileType should be translated to contentType which uses the MIME standard.
   
* Will there be need for setting the contentType from this? Contrary to contentType, FileType is not restricted to a single value, thus different FileTypes might call for different contentTypes, which would be problematic.
   * Good point - I think we should change the cardinality in the spec to allow for more than one content type.
   * From call having one is a strong indication of intent.   Need to confirm with MIME standard if more than one content type is permitted.  What is the intent that is being conveyed,  MIME types get to 
   * Looking for examples from the wild,  tentative MIME type is singluar, unless counter example is provided.    If multiple items in the 2.3 document, then there is no automatic way to choose the correct type.   Based on examples shown from wild, may look at flexing the cardinality.   Consider when using automatic MIME detection and use the most restricted.  
   * ** Tentative:  keep it singular, until we see a counter example in this meeting **

* packageFileName - Will this be a Relationship to a file? packageFileName may also point to a folder, though.
   * We were thinking of using a relationship. If it is a folder, then we would probably create a separate "package" definition to represent the folder? The folder scenario is one I have not thought through and probably deserves more discussion.
   * This is still under discussion,  may need to treat single file as a logical grouping.  File represents bytes.
   * **Recommendation is to have optional path field**, not related on contextual encapulation.  Content element abstraction can be extended to in future. 
   
   * Sebastian to do a writeup this week - Sean to provide UCO definition
   * how do you hash a file with no name? Don’t you typically provide the file name to a hashing algorithm?   
      * It just refers to its only content.   Name of file is it's hash.   Example is stream of types over internet. 
      
* Identity Discussion
    * David E to host & Rose to take notes
    * Sharing model png from GitHub
    * David: Concern is that "agent" (parent of person/org/software agent) should be identity instead of agent. An identity is anything that is individually identified that may do something but isn't necessarily doing something. An identity can refer to a person or organization or what we've been calling bots. Would NOT apply to things like "books" or "moon rocks" - these things cannot "do anything".
    * Sean thinks agent it should exclude software agents (bots)
    * NASA sends tweets from the Mars rover - it is personified and identified individually and does things but not a person or organization
    * Sean: agree that we need to think about this. My biggest issue is not sure this is the right time
    * Sean: Definitely a disagreement on the definition of "identity". A lot of domains using SPDX think of people as a person or organization. Proposing to change identity beyond "who" is substantial change of definiton. The reason we used identity as a who is because of definion "characterization of being a who".
    * This seems like an issue between Sean and David and maybe they need to take this offline
    * Nisha: suggest taking up a real world example we need to solve: GitHub Actions (we need this for the build profile). It involves a number of actors that may or may not point to a person or organization. GitHub Actions - the action that gets triggered by an event that gets triggered by a user.
    * Karsten: mixing 3 concepts: identity; actor; agent. GH Actions example is Agent acting on behalf of identity.
    * Dick: Proposing situation where there's a risk assessment being done on a binary software object
    * David E: the purpose of this is to define the standard. We are using words to try to convey something useful but we can define the terminology. We might be getting a little lost in the weeds. Would like to do an experiment - have David K and Sean each give the argument for each other.
    * David K: could have a union without any parent.
    * David E: What is the problem for each Sean and David K if we took the other option?
      * David K: When you use the word agent instead of identity you lose the fact that a person is a person whether they are doing something or not.
      * Sean: Agent is the right term - does not mean something is acting means it has the capacity to act. We have some freedom of which terms we use but we need to be careful of what terms we use when the other world might have a different definiton of the term which might cause confusion or conflict.
  * How would we implement this for GH Actions example?
    * Sebastian: this is as far from a simple example as we can get.
    * Sean: we don't have time to fully model this right now but if GH Action thing that created this then it would be software agent.
    * David E: we seem to agree on the concept but terminology is at heart of disagreement. 
      * Bob: maybe agent is a more neutral word
      * David K: I looked up distributed identity spec and they actually include software in their taxonomy. Identity in other places includes software. Fundamental disagreement is that you can't say person and organizations are who. orgs aren't plural of person. Orgs have their own identity that is separate from any people they may employ.
      * Bob: org is a who by tax laws. It's not the who of the group it's its own who.
      * Sean: Agent is the defacto term among other communities
      * Karsten: Person and Org have different super class (i.e. actor) and we add other agents but under one super class is confusing
      * Sean will send email to mailing list asking Nisha if his solution for solving GH Actions works for her



Future meeting:

* If a future integrity profile requires a checksum, it may not be possible to translate to a file relationship since the checksum is optional in SPDX2.  
* filesAnalyzed - There is no integrity profile to take the place of requiring checksums for files. Some uses of filesAnalyzed indicate that a certain level of tooling was applied to the source. We would lose this information if this field is removed.
* PackageVerificationCode - In SPDX2 we could express a list of excluded files, how is this possible in SPDX3?
   * The idea is we would have a separate verification implementation for packages that would include this information. The work for this hasn't been done.
* SnippetFromFile - Should this be converted to a contains relationship from the containing file to the contained snippet?
   * Gary think that was the discussion, however, still think a property would be easier to parse/follow. If I recall, I reluctantly agreed to it being a relationship.
* ExternalPackageReference properties:
As SPDX2 category and type seem to correspond to two different SPDX3 classes (ExternalReference and ExternalIdentifer, resp.), will an SPDX2 ExternalReference be converted to two different objects? Or will we drop the SPDX2 category (we don't lose information because type uniquely determines category) and convert to an SPDX3 ExternalIdentifier only?
     *  category 
       * This seems to resemble the ExternalReferenceType, but the Enums don't match up. Is there a conversion table for this?
    *  type 
        * Similar to category above, but this seems to resemble the ExternalIdentifierType, though again the Enums don't quite match.
        * Additionally, this can be String-valued if category is OTHER. In this case, should this be converted to SPDX3 ExternalIdentifierType.other?
   *  locator 
      * Problem: locator can be an arbitrary String (without spaces) in SPDX2 when the category is OTHER, but the SPDX3 ExternalReference.locator must be a URI.
      
