# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, March 10, 2022

## Attendees

* Candice Wright
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Jim Vitrano
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Mary Hardy
* Ria Schalnat
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Winslow
* Christina Chen
* Mark Atwood

## Agenda

* follow-up from last call: webinar for how to contribute to license list / participate in the process?
* continue reviewing open issues for 3.17

## Notes

* new participant interested in GSoC that Sebastian noted; discussion of GSoC - we should have a look at proposed projects: https://wiki.spdx.org/view/GSOC/GSOC_ProjectIdeas
  * timing: currently in project review??
  * maybe look at online tools and consider potential projects
  * Jilayne to ask Gary whether he can come to next Legal call

* **Steve to email LF IT re: wiki accounts for Steve and Sebastian**

* webinar idea:
  * outreach has been focused more recently on security side of things
  * Jilayne: interim thought - Vicky had written up workflow document at https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/blob/master/DOCS/new-license-workflow.md; can someone who is newer look at ways to break it up?
  * Ria: would help even to add table of contents to that page; template was helpful; review in connection with Hippocratic-3.0
    * template: https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/blob/master/DOCS/submission-response-template.md
  * Discussed use of GitHub user interface for editing -- including additional edits in same branch
  * Ria will try to submit a table of contents
  * https://cryptpad.fr/ - useful MarkDown editor
  * Would be helpful to add useful hints, e.g. link to GitHub MarkDown format, etc.
  * SPDX License List FAQs update: was worked on last year, https://github.com/seabass-labrax/spdx-license-list-faqs
  * Or, should it just live in GitHub / MarkDown rather than on the SPDX website?
    * discuss with Outreach team / Steering Committee re: removing it from the Wordpress website?
    * Sebastian - note that the license list part of the FAQs on the website requires scrolling down (when view is narrower); suggest removing and replacing with link
    * Jilayne will email Steering Committee to say we're looking at doing this
    * Outreach team call next Thursday 1 hour earlier than this call

## Future topics

* invite Gary and do an overview of SPDX Online Tools as relates to legal team/license list
