# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, January 20, 2022

## Attendees

* Brad Goldring
* Christina Chen
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Jim Vitrano
* John Horan
* Neal Gompa
* Paul Madick
* Ria Schalnat
* Richard Fontana
* Russell Gelvin
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

* Think about how to speed faster review/addition for simple licenses in use in Fedora
* Steve - follow-up on pro bono / CLE credit idea
* Next Legal Team meeting -- Feb. 3rd (which would align with General meeting) or Feb. 10th? Should it be "every two weeks" or "second and fourth week of every month"?
* Review of PRs / Issues for upcoming 3.16 release

## Notes

* Intros
  * Russell - with Jilayne and Richard at Red Hat, working with SPDX License IDs

* Think about how to speed faster review/addition for simple licenses in use in Fedora
  * Jilayne: Prior email to list about Fedora considering using SPDX license IDs in Fedora package spec files
    * field for identifying license
    * also a "approved / not approved" field, tied to Fedora wiki / documentation
  * Also uses identifiers, but not in the strict SPDX "matching guidelines" sense, e.g. "MIT" is used for a bunch of licenses that are very similar but not identical matches
  * Historical discussions of what would be involved with Fedora switching over => perhaps needing to change lots of identifiers in Fedora spec files
  * Richard: SPDX identifiers allow greater precision for classifying licenses for Fedora / RH and other downstream distros
  * Fedora also considering moving some of their license documentation off of the wiki and into a more machine-readable format
  * Several process steps both for adding licenses to SPDX License List, and on the Fedora side for shifting over
  * Neal: 3 proposed phases:
      1) 1-1 mapping of all license identifiers
      2) conversion of categorical identifiers
      3) re-auditing everything using "BSD" or "MIT" and splitting identifiers accordingly
  * Relevant links:
      * **Fedora legal mailing list**: https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/legal%40lists.fedoraproject.org/
      * **Spreadsheet re: analysis from 2013-2014, recently updated**: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fi5SVzyCAL0UDravvkS6Us4lFwRiQy-l3qTUEkY92U0/edit#gid=243613621
  * Discussion of how downstream users of the license list do (or don't) encounter SPDX documentation in a useful way, and engagement between SPDX community and other communities
  * Discussion about versioning of the license list:
      * useful for SPDX Documents, for specifying which version of the license list was used for identifiers
      * less relevant (or not relevant at all) for distros, projects, etc. using IDs in their own source code / metadata
  * how to speed up process of reviewing, approving new licenses (so SPDX doesn't not create a hold-up for Fedora package maintainers in future) and if/when there are many licenses that need to be added
  * our documentation - 3 people say yes, no objections in one issue per license, then prepare xml files, etc. in PR
* Steve suggested batching them together - if there are a bunch to add
* for new licenses in Fedora - could we plug something in there to that process? SPDX has some tooling, how can we use that
  * SPDX Legal community to consider whether being less strict on matching / grouping licenses under single identifiers is worthwhile -- not a simple change, is a big policy difference
    * Paul: License List is not the place to make legal judgments, but an SPDX document could be a place to do it. Many MIT / BSD-style licenses could be templatized based on existing practices. But putting a legal interpretation into the license list may cause the list to lose value

* Steve - follow-up on pro bono / CLE credit idea
  * moving to subsequent meeting


* Next Legal Team meeting -- Feb. 3rd (to align with General meeting) or Feb. 10th? Should it be "every two weeks" or "second and fourth week of every month"? Outreach is third Thursday of the month at same time as general call
  * Will discuss further on mailing list; likely keep at least the next meeting as-is given current calendar invites
  * ***Website link needs updating*** at https://spdx.dev/participate/legal/ to add calendar invites

* Review of PRs / Issues for upcoming 3.16 release - not enough time, but get PRs ready for release at end of month

## Future topics
* Steve - follow-up on pro bono / CLE credit idea
