# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, September 22, 2022

## Attendees

* Vicky Brasseur
* Sebastian Crane
* Brad Goldring
* Mary Hardy
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Gowri Krishna
* Warner Losh
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Paul Madick
* Ria Schalnat
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

* review and confirm tasks / owners for 3.19 documentation release (end of Oct.)
* responding to recent license submissions
* spam on repositories -- discuss

## Notes

* Overall: Jilayne and Steve focusing on a lot of the documentation; may need others to weigh in on licenses as they've been coming in

* 1624 (license inclusion guidelines) - Jilayne to write change proposal

* 1572 (license submission tool) - Jilayne already sent PR

* 1569 (documenting / changing release process) - Steve to take and confirm

* 1439 (FAQs) - Warner and Mary with minor edits; Mary, Brad and John will review and submit proposals for add'l questions

* PR 1573 (wording for license fields) - clarifications to naming for identifiers

* Matching Guidelines - SPDX spec links changing, not stable for each version -- is there anything like a "latest" tag? Can there be? Ria to look into this
  - Sebastian: SPDX 3.0 will likely change _all_ the links, should we have a joint tech/legal team meeting to discuss this?
  - Jilayne: Not just an issue for matching guidelines / legal team; kind of about cross-functional and internal / external linking to the spec. With 3.0, is that an opportunity to build in the capability for this going forward? Maybe wait until then?
  - Likely need a cross-project / steering committee discussion re: direction of 3.0 spec
  - Following steering committee discussion, will likely do a cross-team meeting hosted by Ria and Sebastian

## Future topics

* next time: review proposals for FAQ questions
