# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, February 24, 2022

## Attendees

* Sebastian Crane
* John Horan
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Anthony Ronda
* Steve Winslow
* Candice Wright
* Jim Vitrano
* Ria Schalnat

## Agenda

* Follow-up on email list discussion re: LGPL-3.0 - https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-legal/topic/88334638
* Discuss 3.17 requests marked as open and not yet accepted / rejected

## Notes

* Follow-up on email list discussion re: LGPL-3.0 - https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-legal/topic/88334638
  - Discussed on call
  - Alexios's suggestion - perhaps tie into SPDX 3.0
  - Sebastian: Consider down the road, enabling defining the license list XML files themselves as SPDX documents?
    - overlap with license namespaces topic?
  - For LGPL-3.0, discussed on call, no objections
  - Steve to follow up on mailing list and then submit PR

* Discuss 3.17 requests marked as open and not yet accepted / rejected
  - approved licenses / exceptions noted in GitHub issues - notes made in issues covered

## Future topics

* webinar for how to contribute to license list / participate in the process?
