# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, October 13, 2022

## Attendees

* Sebastian Crane
* Richard Fontana
* Brad Goldring - GTC Law Group
* Steve Winslow
* Paul Madick
* Mary Hardy
* Gowri Krishna
* Kate Stewart
* Warner Losh
* John Horan
* Jilayne Lovejoy

## Agenda

* review proposals for FAQ questions
* lock down on which documentation tasks will make it in for 3.19

## Notes

### review proposals for FAQ questions

* Questions in discussion thread at https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1439
  * project with e.g. multiple "core" and "non-core" under different licenses?
    - Steve: would do AND for all licenses
    - Warner: similar view, avoid getting into "license compatibility" in the expression syntax b/c that's a legal judgment, based on specifically what's involved and what's happening. Paints a boundary around what's relevant and what questions to ask, but doesn't try to make the expression syntax do something that it shouldn't do
    - Appropriate to add to FAQ - also other questions re: expression syntax there
    - Sebastian: can talk about packages more granularly if needed
  * is retaining a short-form license identifier sufficient?
    - suggest "not necessarily, discuss with your lawyer" rather than "no"?
    - or rather, signal "SPDX does not provide legal advice on compliance; only an attorney can answer in your particular situation" together with second sentence with "but rather" instead of "only"
    - "The short identifier is not intended to serve the purpose of license compliance, but rather license identification."
    - also remove "OS" - licenses generally
    - consider highlighting "identifying is just identifying what the terms are; then need to comply with the terms"
  * Brad - adding a license FAQ - suggest pulling out and summarizing + adding more
    - How do I request? => higher-level answer not just link
    - What are the general criteria? (summarize the inclusion principles briefly)
    - Why was my license rejected?
    - Add more detail or another question on "Why not include every single license?"
  * additional questions to consider:
    - What's involved in maintaining the license list? (explaining why effort is involved and why some aren't included)
    - Explain LicenseRef- more in non-listed licenses question
    - Concluded / Declared license - explain or clarify more re: SPDX documents
    - What does the blue text and red text mean in the license list entry?
    - What is a Standard License Header?
    - What does it mean when a license ID is "deprecated"?
* Should FAQ be duplicative of what's already written elsewhere?
  * Warner: 2-3 sentence high-level overview, not full details
  * Jilayne: overview + link to elsewhere for fuller details
* Actual write-ups of FAQ:
  * Jilayne will cut and paste markdown into a Google Doc
  * Mary will write up draft language for additions
  * Folks will review
  * Mary / Steve to then submit a PR

### documentation tasks for 3.19

* 1677 - Steve posted XML fields writeup, John will review

* 1624 - license inclusion guidelines update - substantive change of ordering for other factors, Jilayne will prepare future change proposal for discussion; non-substantive adding of numbers for definitive factors, Jilayne will update PR 1647 to limit to just that and to move OSI note to "Historical Background" context

## Future topics
