# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, November 10, 2022

## Attendees
* Richard Fontana
* Paul Madick
* Ria Schalnat
* Sebastian Crane
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Brad Goldring
* Warner Losh
* John Horan

## Agenda

* Various updates:
  * 3.19 release - Steve has yet to push
  * FAQ been revamped and published in markdown - see https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/blob/main/DOCS/faq.md - please review there and make PRs for any improvements to that. A few more questions need to be re-worked in Google doc, Jilayne will get those into markdown via PR then get rid of Google doc
  * update from All Things Open conference
  * Warner should have update on FreeBSD adoption of SPDX ids in Jan or after
* license review process given increased number of submissions: how do we make this more efficient? two part of process:
  * Review of license: needs to be done by SPDX. Current process: someone uses template to review, 3 people total to say yes, then considered approve
  * Warner - it's a bit tedious, but not sure how to streamline
  * Jilayne - idea on review..
  * Richard - would this speed things up? or is the issue of things being slow a matter of Steve or Jilayne having time
  * Jilayne response to that re: one idea of having streamlined approval for license included in major project that has free/open license definition and only require one person to verify those facts
  * Sebastian - how do we improve participation? what about awareness of easy issues that exist? (if not shortcuts)
  * Ria - new template that has easier format with yes/no tick boxes helps. Some of struggle is that not as much concerned about Richard's submissions, but slippery scope concept of a "fast-track" and next company that wants a bunch of licenses included
      * Jilayne - Debian example
      * Sebastian - what if Debian got it wrong? How much trust do we want to put into communities
      * Warner - FreeBSD has large number of variants, difficulty of getting them approve is: are the same as existing license (eg, author/copyright holder/name)? or someone added some squirrely stuff (e.g., put notice immediately in file recent example) - harder to decide on. If I submit, I shouldn't vote on it or put in fastrack. FreeBSD has policy that Core team do something, has to give notice and time to object - could use something like that re: fastrack but have a notice period
      * Sebastian - when we moved direction of Fedora using SPDX, we discussed having some press, but hasn't happened yet - should we revive this yet? e.g, Fedora Magazine - Sebastian will put on agenda for Outreach Meeting - this Monday at 7am
      * Question for all: what would make it easier to review licenses (either using template if first person, or giving input on analysis, e.g., "+1 to add" or reason you don't think it should be added
  * Ria: not comfortable doing research, (e.g., Richard's research on recent submission finding that a large number of repos that were spam and not really using the license); and need to follow up with maintainer re: stable text, etc. - is there a way to quantify on reasonable use. Trying to get questions to be as easy to answer yes/no and quantify as possible
  * Jilayne - the "substantial factor" guideline has been discussed many times and suggestions to have a clear line have been made, but always hard
  * Paul - there has always been subjectiveness in this factor; not always easy to figure out when it's a new license, if someone has "a feeling" it's going to be used, then can re-apply and we should remind/tell them that. It's not up to SPDX to help a license get traction. Unless we change guideline and just add everything that comes our way and SPDX could end up being a promulugated of random licenses
  * Ria - we do have some interest in reducing the proliferation of licenses b/c reduces load on legal departments, etc. Maybe a minor variation of suggestion of not a general rule to fastrack but could be a fastrack process
  * Brad - hasn't done one with new template yet, or done one recently - it's a bit intimidating. would be great to have a session for people who hasn't done it before and walk through it together on a call, do that once or twice a year for new people
  * Ria - she's been trying to do things internally at HP to get other people to help - super simple introductory steps (with links, see below) - maybe could add TL;DR (Ria's version) of process to https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/blob/main/DOCS/new-license-workflow.md and then have detail if you want to drill down on a step
  * Warner - maybe a YouTube video, Brad agreed this would be valuable; Ria suggested having videos in steps, so don't have to drill down or wade thro long video
  * Plan of action:
     * schedule a future call to do walk-through together (Brad's idea)
     * someone takes notes and then works on re-work of New License Workflow (in terms of making more user friendly
     * consider video idea after

Introductory Steps (this is very short but there is more detail in the New License Workflow).
1. Consume the License Inclusion Principles.
2. Get a GitHub ID.
3. Pick an issue
4. Write up a Submission Review (NOTE: This has been reformatted from what I shared earlier this summer so give it a look and update your bookmark here for sure!).
