# SPDX Software as a Service Profile Meeting 2023-04-13

## Attendees
* Gary O'Neall
* Banula Kumrage
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Nisha Kumar
* Prasad Iyer
* Rose Judge
* Adolfo Veytia


## Agenda
* Brief background and context
* Scope
* Target release date
* Meeting Logistics
* Other topics?

## Minutes

### Brief background and context
* Triggered by an email conversation in OpenChain - request for service authentication information
* Related work going on in CISA: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZpTtsY0H2SwfNRq6qUzLMiWLQ8OwlhmJeg_M0cxrOiQ/edit
  * WIP use cases: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yog5o2g2j9MG75G62AWDxblNNkYEZ0WJmkbZWbbIhnU/edit?usp=sharing 
  * Cloud SBOM 3 working groups
    * SBOM Classic - something quick to get out related to work is already done.  Software SaaS providers.  Question: will there be any additional SBOM fields to support SBOM Classic?
    * Stack transparency - answer the question - what data should provider give to a customer related to the software that they host?
      * Large tasks
    * Service Transparency - API's and service endpoints and the data that goes between the service endpoints, not considering software component, more on the service API's, is the data under any classifications or control?  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BpozpJFdhtBAWXDgY09K84Q1l2vZr1K4ocEAQLkJYZc/edit
      * Strong participation from CycloneDX
* Cisco background (Prasad) - Interested in "Offers" - which may be hosted locally or by a 3rd party or a combination of both.  Integration with third party vendors.  When a service level BOM is generated, would like to cover the 3rd party vendords API endpoints.  Can potentially use Service profile.  Classic would use the current software infrastructure.
  * Question on if S3 would be considered a service "Offer" - would be a 3rd party offer.  Would include considerations for the agreement with Amazon
  * Nisha: Likely Service Transparancy related
  * Nisha: Described complexity with a service SBOM that relates to some potentially very large software SBOM's some more relavent than others
  * Nisha: Attestestation as an alternative to service providers delivering the full SBOM
### Scope
* Complimentary and non-overlapping with CISA work
* Compatible with CycloneDX service SBOM
* Capture the associated Certicifacte Authority information for the service - Proposed by Prasad
  * Type of Cert
  * Issue authority
  * Expiry date
  * ... More details to be provided by Prasad
* Who is the marketplace owner?  compliance guidelines as it's related to the marketplace.  Likely covered by the service SBOM - guidelines are published
* Primarily the CISA service transparency workgroup

### Target release date
* Can we make 3.0?
  * Most feel it will be difficult milestones
  * Would need reviewed and submitted in 4 weeks
  * Question on CycloneDX standard adoption
    * Don't see many concrete examples other than security specific use cases (not service)
    * Focused on use case of mobile app reaching out to a service
    * More information that needs to be added
    * Simple structure on CDX Service SBOM - has not been iterated
* Decision: Target 3.1

### Meeting Logistices
* Decision: Every 2 weeks
* Gary will send out a Doodle poll for the date and time
* Poll will be sent to the broader community, but all those who expressed initial interest will get priority on the time

## Next meeting
* Introductions
