SPDX Defects Team meeting - 1st June 2022

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Cox
* Jeff Schutt
* Henk Birkholz
* VM Brasseur
* Karsten Klein

## Agenda
* Approval of [meeting minutes](https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/164) from last week
* Continue work on Defects Profile in 3.0 Spec

## Notes
### Approval of meeting minutes
* No objections and VMB already approved; will merge.

### Miscellaneous
* Jeff will be at RSA Con, anyone else?
* Henk will be on the east coast in July

### Continue to work on Defects Profile in 3.0 Spec
* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qUgIbQbR3veBzT48XzUVZDddBtvjj05ibNxI1dzdRKw/edit#heading=h.gzkf9en0y7tu
* Group is working in the above link to define usage scenarios so we can send out a community survey
* Linking is a 2.3 scenario; Now that we are working on 3.0 -- how do we describe the link? Do we use the embedded scenario or continue to link?
* Do we want to embed security information from another format/standard document inside an SPDX defect document?
* Rose: whats the benefit of that?
  * Thomas: All the information is in the same format
* Embedding == transofming?
* Henk: spec would define the mapping template
* Rose: we would need to define a translation for every type of format -- seems like too much work to keep up with for all the formats that exist currently and in the future. Is there something more general we can use?
* Jeff: maybe we can take fields from each of these formats and determine lowest common denominators?
* Henk: that does not sound like transformation to me and could break once the next format comes out. Perhaps metadata is less brittle
* Jeff: I think we need SPDX to be able to refer to any set of machine readable security information
* Thomas: another use case is to use SPDX as an exchange from various toolings
* Henk: I think we would need stakeholders from all these formats of things we want to transform from if we wanted to do the transformation -- not sure it's something we can do on our own.
* Thomas: this is too much of an effort to get all of them aligned. Linking could be a default.
* Karsten: what about closing in on this issue from a use case perspective?
* Henk: I would look for a media type -- I want to understand what this content is and can I parse it or not?
* Karsten:  communicating status is key
* Jeff: some may not want to parse these external formats -- in this case there's at least two data fields that can be used -- one is the identifier information for the vulnerability/cve/etc to describe the vulnerability; The other is the status of that vulnerability in this component.
* Henk: why would I link something that does not apply to me or that I know nobody will be able to parse?
* Karsten: linking is a seprate use case. However, if I am a tool provider and I want to get an ecosystem on tooling and SPDX does the transformation path for me, I can integrate with other source formats using SPDX as a "hub" and I don't have to deal with other formats, I just use one format.
* Henk: we need some proposals showing us how this will work.
* Rose: concern is around keeping up to date with all of these specs in order to make sure transformation is compatable in SPDX. As standards change, SPDX would inevitably need to change too.
* Thomas: Most developers want an easy way to write easy vulnerabilities and communicate status.
* Jeff: So SPDX is already part of the workflow?
* Thomas: a lot of OSS products generate changelogs from git commit history. The tooling automatically generates release notes and recognizes security fixes so I don't have a CVE but I have a commit message where all the information is encoded in there.
* Jeff: we can discuss the usage scenarios in terms of ease-of-adoption.
  1. point to another machine-readable data structure (linking scenario, solved for in v2.3)
  2. contain a minimal set of the security information in a structure within SPDX (e.g. Thomas example above)
  3. transform/embed more sophisticated security information in an SPDX structure
* Jeff: there's other information we haven't talked about that may fit into this as well?
* Henk: CVEs/CWEs can be in the same bucket
* Jeff: So you are in support of being able to use and document CVEs/CWEs? Henk: yes, and also finally linking them -- I don't have the CVE but I don't have the CWE
Thomas: Options are Linking, minimum set and embedded
Rose: will work with Kate to draft a community feedback form regarding usage scenarios we have defined thus far
