# SPDX Defects Team meeting - Nov 2 2022

## Attendees
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Bob Martin
* William Cox
* Dick Brooks
* Jeff Schutt

## Agenda
* Summary of feedback from SPDX Core on questions from Defects team
* Create a summary of Defects WG progress within SPDX General meeting on Nov 3rd.
* Continue to our discussion

### Questions to Core from SPDX Defects Profile
* Example of linking to an SPDX ID in another document
  * Example in the model diagram - SBOM Example JSON
* Confusion on the model diagrams in minutes - Gary will delete
* What of the below options are available to a profile? If yes, what is the recommendation to implement the option
  a) Making properties in SPDX core elements optional or mandatory
    * Profiles can add constraints, but can not add or make optional if mandatory
  b) Adding new properties to SPDX core elements
    * Proposal to not allow adding new properties in profiles - should be added in core
    * Discussion on using relationships over properties
  c) Changing ENUM in data types
    * Open punchlist item as to whether ENUMs can be extended - TBD
  d) Changing properties in SPDX Core data types
    * Same as b) above
* Request for guidance from Core team on what can be added / modified in profiles
  * Perhaps some documentation
* How do we model actors?  e.g. someone creates, someone reviews
  * either a property or relationship
  * example - supplier is a relationship and originatedBy is a property

### Create a summary of Defects WG progress within SPDX General meeting on Nov 3rd

1. Current status 
  * 2.3 can link to security info 
  * we now working on 3.x , were blocked on Core to clarify things - serialization of model / punchlist complete.
2. How will security profile be different than what in 2.3?
  * It's a new profile so communicate only base and security info
  * We support linking to various security information including CSAF/CDX/VeX and VDR
  * Considering embedding minimal elements to enable SPDX to convey security info in a simplified manner 
    *  build on top of SPDX element instead of Software Profile, e.g., so we can also describe hardware in the future
    * Security Profile dependency on (will inherit from) Core Profile
    * Define Security Profile relationships to Software Profile, Build Profile, AI-ML Profile, Hardware Profile, etc.
  * We are addressing topics VEX covers as the community picture becomes clearer (CSAF/CDX/VEX)
  
  
Thomas: Do we model product in Defects?
Jeff: Seperate profile Product?
Bob: Top-level/primairy component is the product, we really talking about alias
Document Vulnerability standards for dynamic data stream
Jeff: We need to support both linking to external vulnerability information and relationships between vulnerability info known at release and SBOM Packages - but don't change the SBOM part
Bob: support both vulnerability status at the time the SBOM and software was built (which wouldn't change) and patterns to support dynamic vulnerability information

Jeff: Clear support any of the VEX'es? (CSAF/CDX/VEX)
Bob: Link to them Ok, but embed we need to look at common element
Thomas: Yes on embed but which one? 
Jeff: What are the common elements across CSAF, CDX, VEX, VDR? Dig into which are the common elements in the next meeting.
