SPDX Defects Team meeting - 16th March 2022

## Attendees
* Christian Long
* Rose Judge
* Dick Brooks
* Karsten Klein
* Jeff Schutt
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Bob Martin
* Anthony Harrison
* Sebastian Crane

## Agenda
* General
  * Approval of minutes from last week's meeting
  * Other topics / news
* Adding linking to security vulnerability information in SPDX 2.3

## Notes
### General
* Any objections to approving https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/137? Approved, Rose merged
* Other
  * Thomas will be travelling next week at the time of this meeting. @Rose can you host next week?
  * Rose can host next week.
  * As discussed last week, Rose filed a PR to request license fields to become optional - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/635

### Adding linking to security vulnerability information in SPDX 2.3
* Thomas: As discussed last week I have added an option 3 to SPDX 2.3 proposal see https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A9lOwYrpVlmxBl_cEahZTMeo0gU6yDxkgSbx4I5K5v4/edit
* Need to wrap up the 2.3 proposal before end of this month so it's time to make some decisions
* Thomas: Added option 3
* Question on new option 3 - can we require these fields? We dont have a security profile concept as we will in 3.0
* Thomas: No but we should formulate the wording that it strongly suggests to do so (e.g. with the aim of future compatibility with SPDX 3.x)
* Jeff: option to include this in an appendix that provides guidance
* Thomas: In order to convey security information in SPDX 2.x we need to use one of the three options. It is only a recommended practice.

### Dick Brook's proposed practices document for SBOM relating to patches
* Thomas: could also use PACKAGE_MANAGER ExternalRef type instead of just SECURITY. Allows consumers of the SBOM to look up vulnerabilities from the identifiers.
* Discussion of SPDX root documents and where external reference references. The various external references could be at the root level or the package level depending on the context.
* Karsten: External reference is used to query vulnerability database to identfy the vulnerabilities
* Karsten: May need to be able to reference multiple CPEs
* Thomas: that can be easily accomodated including vendor change
* Dick: Option 3 is reasonable approach to go forward with. Can also use option 1 and 2 as necessary
* Anthony: Can we have some examples to see how the proposal would look?
* Thomas will look into it
* Jeff Can we add Option 4 to capture the proposed options?
* Jeff shared a table comparing the currently proposed options and additional option 4
* Reference types - comments more flexible than identifiers.
* Thomas: This is an initial release and not the perfect solution. A more elegant solution may come later in SPDX 3.0
* Dick: Need to be able to publish SBOMs in August to meet US Executive Order
* Thomas: SPDX 2.3 deadline is early April to meet release date
* Thomas: could use comment field to convey more information in SPDX 2.3
* Thomas: Option 2 is good enough with maybe some consensus required on the categories. Option 1 is more restricted (and is included in Option 2 via web category)
* Thomas: Start with simple set initially
* Dick: Need to define semantics for each category in Option 2
* Jeff: supported reference types in Option 2 only address one of the discussed use cases and standards
* Thomas: As a group are we happy with Option 2 but needs some refinement as regards the options?
* Dick: Need to come up with the supported reference types
* Thomas: Shall I propose a set? Send to defects group by email tomorrow.
* Thomas: Next week we will refine the comments which have been discussed on the email group.
