# SPDX Defects Team Meeting - April 27, 2023

## Attendees
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Rose Judge
* Jeff Schutt
* Adolfo Garcia
* Gary O'Neall
* Karsten Klein

## Agenda
* Continue to finish SPDX security model

## Notes
### Finish SPDX Security model
* Walk through Karsten's vulnerability assessment details and how to model
* Vulnerability is purposely very generic (CVE identifier associated with a package at a certain point in time). Relationship = contains (package contains vulnerability; advisory?)
* VulnerabilityCvssV3Assessment element: I can make one assessment for the product but may have a different assessment for subcomponent.
  * The vulnerability assessment should always point at the sub-component package, file or snippet that the vulnerability affects because we already have a relationship between subcomponent and product.
  * VulnerabilityCvssV3Relationship: from single CVE to single subcomponent or multiple subcomponents?
*  Cannot have an assessment without a relationship to a package/file/snippet element
* Add subproduct property to relationship? More work because would need to ammend relationship
* Require relationship between root package (product) and subackages affected by CVE.
  * A component may be pointed at by more than one product
  * Do you follow all relationships?
  * must point CVE at most specific subcomponent in the graph
* Decision: 
  * the security elements will be modeled as relationships, including VEX and various categorizations/assessments such as CVSS, EPSS, etc.

* TODO:
  * update the model diagram 
  * create the markdown files by adding definitions to the google doc here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZT_w3HiW6LJjouRlw3xHXPnmy7ArwOdlw4vpzIjS9_o/edit?usp=sharing
  * upload Karsten's assessment diagram and update as needed to show how we landed at the decision made
  * create contextually relevant examples for various languages and vulnerabilities  
* Action items: 
* Rose: Add to Google doc descriptions for relationship types, externalReferenceTypes plus schedule a 2 hour worshop on Wednesday starting 1 hour earlier than normal.
* Adolfo: Review vex and add to Google doc descriptions for vex and cvss assessment
* Jeff: Add to Google doc descriptions for epss & ssvc assessment and model diagram
* Thomas: Update outstanding PR to match 
