# SPDX Defects Team Meeting - April 26, 2023

## Attendees
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Jeff Schutt
* Gary O'Neall
* Rose Judge
* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Karsten Klein
* William Cox

## Agenda
* Help Rose with Security Profile presentation for SPDX 3.0 Tooling Mini Summit
* Clean up model with the latest changes
* Should rename categorization to William name?
* Revisit status in VEX relationship
* Adding more types to ExternalReference

## Notes
### Mini summit presentation
* Make sure to include VDR example 

### Vulnerability Categorizations
* Karsten: would expect vulnerabilityCateogrization as a propety of vulnerability element since the two are related
* Jeff: The reason we used that is because the cvss* score is a way to describe the vulnerability, each type with its own set of properties to describe it
* Should we rename categorization to assessment?
* Consensus to change from "VulnerabilityCategorization" to "VulnerabilityAssessment"
* Published/modified/withdrawn timestamps on vulnerability - do assessments need this? 
  * Assessments don't need it but VEX needs it
  * May want to state the lifecycle of an assessment
    * Also if you want to re-categorize it
  * Element for vulnerability, element for assessment and element for package
    * Which is the to and from as we relate from vuln and package and vuln and assessment for that package?
      * FROM package TO vulnerability
* Assessment is about the vulnerability as it affects a specific product or package
* Use VEX to model how a vuln affets or doesnt affect a package
* Should we consider modeling the assessment stuff? right now it's subclasses of relationships
* Assessment is its own class - should we consider modeling it as a relationship?
  * Assessment can have external references if its its own class, but not as relationships
* VexRelationship type is its own element
* FROM package TO vulnerability makes sense for VEX but FROM vuln TO package makes sense for the assessment
* We need to finish this model in a week. Working group scheduled for tomorrow @ 11:30 pacific

### Adding more types to ExternalReference
* ExternalReferenceType in 3.0 model is defined as
  * altDownloadLocation: A reference to an alternative download location.
  * altWebPage: A reference to an alternative web page.
  * other: Used when the type doesn't match any of the other options.
  * securityAdvisory: A reference to the published security advisory (where advisory as defined per ISO 29147:2018). It may contain an impact statement whether a package (e.g. a product) is or is not affected by vulnerabilities.
  * securityFix: A reference to the source code with a fix for the vulnerability (e.g., a GitHub commit).
  * securityOther: Used when the reference is security related but doesn't match any of the other types.

* Could we add the below types?
  * bom: A reference to the bill of materials information related to an artifact // Use case Eclipse foundation publishing SPDX SBOMs for all their projects on 
  * bom-advisories: A reference to API service where up-to-date security advisory statements related to artifacts can be retrieved
  * bom-vex: A reference to API service where up-to-date VEX statements related to artifacts can be retrieved
  * binary-artifact:  A reference to binary artifacts related to a package
  * build-meta: A reference build metadata related to a published package
  * build-system: A reference build system used to create or publish the package
  *  source-artifact:  A reference to an artifact containing the source for a package
  * chat: A reference to the instant messaging system used by the maintainer for a package
  * documentation: A reference to the documentation for a package
  * funding: A reference to funding informaton related to a package
  * issue-tracker: A reference to the issue tracker for a package
  * mailing-list:  A reference to the mailing list used by the maintainer for a package
  * metrics:  A reference to metrics related to package such as OpenSSF scorecards.
  * license: A reference to additional license information related to an artifact
  * release-notes: A reference to the release notes for a package
  * release-history: A reference to published list of releases for a package
  * social-media: A reference to social media chanel for a package or vulnerability
  * source-artifact:  A reference to an artifact containing the source for a package
  * support:  A reference to social support channel for a package or vulnerability
  * vcs :  A reference to version control system related to an artifact
