# SPDX Software as a Service Profile Meeting 2023-05-15
## Attendees
* Gary O'Neall
* Steven Masterson
* Nisha Kumar
* Prasad Iyer
* Rose Judge
* Ivana Atanasova 
* Danesh Badlani


## Agenda
* Introductions
* Methodology
  * How do we want to document the use cases
* Use cases (https://docs.google.com/document/d/149PcR_KjyWKLk0fMgujoWRtVkEikcohD2u3BBmY4pS8/edit?usp=sharing)
* Extensions to the SPDX Core Profile (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/tree/main/model/Core)

## Minutes


### Introductions
* Prasad - lead's 3rd party inbound/outbound for Cisco - ensure all 3rd party dependencies (commercial and OSS are in compliance)
* Steve - Pega System - compliance analyst reporting to CISO, currently focused on product development processes - infrastructure as a service company
* Danesh - product manager for SBOM tools at Microsoft, securing supply chain
* Ivana - engineer in VMWare supply chain open source team - working on SBOM tooling, parting of CISA service transparency group
* Nisha - Software engineer at Oracle, lead the service transparency working group - subgroup of CISA cloud and modern applications workstream - link into CISA
* Rose - Open source engineer at VMWare, Security co-lead, interested in SaaS profile

### Methodology
* Typically start with use cases
* Starts with a persona/actor/role. Define a goal. Write steps to achieve that goal. Purpose is to focus discussion and answer "why" questions about spec and implementation.
* Write things in markdown. Many folks in the community have md experience.
* Specification is written in markdown and submitted as a PR to the main branch.
* Implement use cases and iterate on specification
* 
* Use case documentation
  * Ivana and Nisha (re)document the CISA use cases
  * Google Docs?
  * Etherpad instance?
* Should we adopt CISA?
* Decision: Use Google Docs
* Should submit model diagrams to SPDX 3 Model unless it is a class diagram
* Use of the term "Service" may be confusing - "Software as a Service"
* Should be inclusive of "Software as a service" and "Infrastructure as a service"
* Use "Serivce" for now, revisit before publishing
* Also an issue with "Bill of Materials" - "Bill of Service??"

### Use Cases
* Reference - CISA use cases: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yog5o2g2j9MG75G62AWDxblNNkYEZ0WJmkbZWbbIhnU/edit#heading=h.ivoat0qluuze
* Use case document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/149PcR_KjyWKLk0fMgujoWRtVkEikcohD2u3BBmY4pS8/edit?usp=sharing
* Discussed use case involving vulnerabilities within the services
  * Log4J example - a consumer wants to know if the services they use are impacted
  * Similar to software bill of materials - traditional SBOM - use cases
  * Agreed to divide into 2 separte use cases
    * Software vulnerability discovery across the services - is a service I'm using, using a software component with a known vulnerability?
    * Service vulnerability discovery - is the service vulnerable to due miss-configuration or other non - software component reasons?
* There are additional use cases we did not have time to capture, we'll discuss on the next call
* We'll use the use case document above to document use cases in the interim

### Extensions to the Core Model
* Reference  - Core model repo: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/tree/main/model/Core

## Next meeting
* Review use case documents - discuss which use cases we wish to support
