## Attendees

  - Gary O'Neall
  - Paul Madick
  - Allan Tse
  - Kate Stewart
  - Mark Gisi
  - Ansel Hallliburton

## Agenda

1\) Fedora List: The Fedora legal and tech list had an active discussion
concerning SPDX. Jilayne created a spreadsheet providing a 1:1 match
between SPDX and Fedora short identifiers. Developers are looking for
something simple to adopt and SPDX might meet that requirement. Some
resistance to adoption might best be solved by in-person discussions.

2\) Standard header update: Mark G. has identified 3 parts to the
activity- a) Identify licenses that have standard headers (some have
formatting issues, Mark to address with Gary), b) Identify headers with
optional terms and templatize them (need Jilayne's help, 12 identified),
and c) possible addition of "standard" headers for license with no such
headers. Great discussion on "c", with a consensus that it is worth
talking about and Mark G. would take a stab at requirements.

3\) Mark-up bug raised on tech team call- bug filed requesting that the
mark-up be done to facilitate automation vs. human readable. Good goal
that tech team will look to see if it can be prioritized for next year.
Gary will also talk with Jilayne about the possibility of making mark-up
changes something that others can do and then submit as a patch.
