## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Kate Stewart
  - Dennis Clark
  - Alan Tse
  - Brad Edmundson

## Agenda

1\) v2.3 items: a) do we need matching guidelines markup for the new
licenses added on the last call?

  - curl License - no markup needed
  - Info-ZIP - very specific license to Info-ZIP w/names, etc. - no
    markup
  - Open CASCADE Technology Public License - no markup needed, specific
    to project
  - Open CASCADE exception - no markup needed
  - also checked names and short identifiers on all

b) Open Game License is marked as "on hold" - do we have a reason for
that?

  - Looked at again, and have hard time determining what it is covering
    (doesn't seem like software or documentation license) needs further
    input from someone with gaming knowledge - Alan to have a look

c) Sam Ellis' request to add this as an exception:
<http://repo.gem5.org/gem5/file/021524c21cbc/src/cpu/exec_context.cc>
and comment from Oliver that this is similar to Linus' note re: derived
work in kernel - are these exceptions or clarifications of the
interpretation of the license itself? Either way, how does SPDX want to
handle them?

  - need more discussion, and community view - will put on agenda for
    New Year

d) add markup to TCL? <http://spdx.org/licenses/TCL.html> is not exactly
the same as is on the website:
<http://www.tcl.tk/software/tcltk/license.html> the \*only\* difference
is just in “ActiveState corporation” being added in the list of
copyright holders/parties.

  - yes, add markup for name

e) add markup around the names in Plexus
<http://spdx.org/licenses/Plexus.html> - dom4j uses the same license,
but for the names and this is a common project, so it would make sense
to be able to match on the substantive text, instead of using a
LicenseRef for dom4j. See dom4j license here:
<http://sourceforge.net/p/dom4j/code/ci/default/tree/LICENSE.txt>

  - yes, add markup (and remove line at top)

f) JSON file format for SPDX proposal - did this get done? any more info
needed?

  - just needed a yes,

2\) Schedule:

  - no call on Dec 24th - next call will be Jan 7th
  - is there any desire to change the call time for 2016? (would an hour
    earlier help those in Europe?)
      - everyone on call was fine either way; but recommendation to
        reach out to Paul and Mark on west coast, and Oliver for
        European time

3\) What do we want to accomplish in 2016?

  - start thinking about initiatives for 2016 to bring to
    discussion/planning on Jan 7th\! Bit of brainstorming on this call
    came up with:
      - improving license markup/templatizing (Kris' proposal) &
        possible move of SPDX License List to more
        "contribution-friendly" infrastructure (e.g., Github) should be
        number 1 priority for 2016
          - include in this an improved way to request a new license to
            make process more efficient and easily visible, which may
            also encourage more input from outside the group. Could
            create a Google form that feeds info into the current Google
            spreadsheet (thus reduces a couple steps over current
            process)
      - double back on old license requests that have stalled due to
        needing more info
      - see other items above here

HAPPY HOLIDAY EVERYONE\!\!
