## Attendees

  - Jilayne
  - Kris
  - Dennis
  - Phil
  - Alan
  - Gary
  - Brad
  - Kate
  - Mark

## Agenda

**1) LinuxCon Europe update:**

  - A Beautiful Build, Bradley Kuhn - helpful advice and tips on how to
    meet the “complete corresponding source” requirement of GPL. slides
    not posted yet, but will be here: <http://ebb.org/bkuhn/talks/> -
    talk was recorded, so may see it on Linux Foundation YouTube channel
  - FOSSology - X-Ray for Software, Michael Jaeger - Overview FOSSology,
    an open source license scanning tool, with a demo of upcoming 3.0
    release changes. FOSSology was developed by HP and is now being
    transferred to the Linux Foundation. Siemens has been very active in
    the transition and development. The new features are very exciting,
    including SPDX 2.0 generation. (Contributions welcome\!) - should
    see v3.0 available any day now.
  - Developer's Care About the License, Jilayne - had a really good
    turnout\! (50-60 people) and only 3 people raised their hands that
    didn’t know anything about SPDX. Slides can be found here:
    <http://events.linuxfoundation.org/sites/events/files/slides/DevelopersCare_JLovejoy_LinuxConEu_2015_final-static.pdf>
    - talk was recorded, so may see it on Linux Foundation YouTube
    channel
  - Supply Chain Mini-Summit - update from Kate:
      - overview of SPDX and OpenChain by Phil and Dave Marr
      - talk on Debsources by Stefano from Debian, see slides here:
        <http://upsilon.cc/~zack/talks/2015/20151008-lf-debsources.pdf>
      - talk on Dosocs by Uday from UNO, see project here:
        <https://github.com/DoSOCSv2>
      - Some work on OpenChain and Miriam from JBB explained and showed
        a demo of FOSS management web-based questionnaire for suppliers
      - free-form talk and brainstorming in afternoon. Will probably
        organize another session focus on tooling in spring, so keep an
        eye out for that

'''2) Improving templates / markup for licenses ''' see:
<http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/Templatizing>

  - we can always add more markup, but want to first consider if we
    improve the markup - function and/or form
  - lots of discussion on technical aspects of this
  - high-level questions are:
      - what is use case of goal of markup? original goals, use-cases:
        comparing two licenses to determine if it is a match & comparing
        any text to entire list to see if there is a match to any
        license. We prioritized the former, thinking there was already
        tools for the latter. matching guidelines purpose, as stated,
        does not really specify which use case it is aimed at (but could
        be interpreted as either or both)
      - should we extend markup to cover more of the latter goal?
      - if so, what format should this take?
          - can use or not use regular expressions or XML. if we switch
            to XML format, changes work flow of maintaining license list
      - if we make this change, will it get uptake?
  - markup on licenses or markup in meantime (e.g., standard headers)?
    probably okay to do so, as can simply convert

Agreed on following process for proposal and discussion:

1.  Kris to do proposal and example (on wiki)
2.  have discussion on next legal call on Oct 29 - invite tech team,
    make sure FOSSology folks, Sam Ellis can join also
3.  then go from there, but as to overall timing - would be good to line
    up for v2.1 aiming to have that ready for Collab Summit (end of
    March). Note: Kate is working on getting a room for SPDX working
    group for a full day at Collab Summit, so put it on your
    calendars\!\!
    <http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/collaboration-summit>
