# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2024-06-14

## Attendees
* Steven Carbno
* Alfred Strauch
* Amit Kumar
* Monty Wiseman
* Hasan Yasar 
* A.J. Stein

## Agenda

## Notes
* Where should information related to TCG be captured?
* TPM part of main system. Root of trust. 
* Certificates root of trust - should be captued in HBOM
* Serial numbers create a new HBOM - per unit
* Component Version is important for QoS
* Life cycle - how does it apply to what happened. ie manufacturing date
* life cycle vs supply chain
* life cycle is change in atomic operations - how a component progresses
* DNA never changes
* manufacturing is the process of build and assembly
* Delta certificate with hieritage - changes from previous platform 
* what did you change - ancestory - descendant 
* Manufacturing cycle simple 
* End user - life cycle starts
* Anomolies - How should an anomoly be dealt with in hardware?
* What should be managed and captured?
* Anomalies are not known untill discovered.
* Should an anomoly be documented if the anomoly is known?
* bug the version
* security model and vulnerability data used to ID issue- artifact
* No need for special ID
* hardware notifications related to VEX
* same process related to vulnerability management used
* relationship - repaired (fixed) by software or hardware 
* Delta certificate issued 
* Use accounting process - write only

## Decisions
* How do you capture trust elements?

## Action Items
* Dicussion in 2 weeks will focus on how life cycle should be implemented.
* Environment contraints
* contraints
