# SPDX Hardware BOM Meeting - 2024-02-09
## Attendees
* Steven Carbno 
* Alfred Strauch
* Sandy Frost 
* Alex Volynkin
* Jim Vitrano
* Kate Stewart
* Michael Gielda

## Agenda
* Intro of any new folk
* Follow up on pending action items
* Work on refining document

## Notes
### Working through document
* Alexey trying to figure out scope of what HBOM covers for Digital Twin:  Scope discussion.
* Majority of digital twin is software - just reference SBOM?    But represents real hardware.
* Interfaces and Timing may need to be handled differently, configuration?  networking? 
* How represent the non-real time aspect.   
* Hardware operates on a clock paramenter.   Do we really want to go down to this level.   ie.  clock ratios?   relationship to clock synchronization.   Which components share a clock?  Circuit board layout may be too far. 
* Critical hardware may need some aspects here. 
* For virtual,  consider real time ,  to indicate it's a factor to be synchronized to.  
* Interfaces:  Big factor in digital twins, due to all the sensory data coming in and being processed.    
  * Some cases we would want multiple inputs - ie. UAV - camera & radar;  synchronized together for knowedge.    Is there windows when things need to be considered?    Hardware interface issue (with a communication issue).   Communication problem.   Synchronization.
  * Discussion of properties for accuracy?   Accuracy - assessment of how good the virtual hardware is, compared to physical enumartion.      Rather than flag - use enumeration for pure SW,  pure HW,  Virtual Hardware,  etc.   
  * Datasets:   How describe timing of inputs.
  * Hardware connection compared to dataset being used for certification. 
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/main/model/Core/Vocabularies/RelationshipType.md. has the currently defined relationships between elements today.    

* How significant is determinism on the virtual environment?    Fully deterministic, vs. interacting with real hardware, issues with data coming in may not be perfect. 
* Setting up properties to show there is difference in digital twin,  makes sense.   Question is where to stop.  Same issue comes up in hardware security.   Hardware Security Module - needs to abe accounted for?  but beyond that, what is reasonable?    Can always simulate by referencing an SBOM that encapsulates.
* Do we need to articulate that hardware component  is not separable for another.   
* Do representation through relationship;  where in virtualized world things are true. 

Usecases discussed. 
* Modeling power usage of real hardware; in terms of figuring out power budget.   We need to see this represeanted.
* Heat disappation is important as well.
* Some of this is digital twin specific is modeling specific?   
* How significant is this for safety modes - common failure modes.   Drawing too much current.   Safety system, how do we represent.   CPU overheating, ... ?    Some things deal with only in models.   Usage case variants are going to push this. 

* What's in the box?   what's connected to what?   Let's avoid getting to detailed to too quickly.   Add it as a potential twinning information later.    All this would be optional. 
* High level simplicity - and then choose parts you want to add to. 

## Prior Outstanding Action Items
