# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2024-03-08

## Attendees
- Bob Martin
- Victor Lu
- Alex Volykin
- Ravi Thakur
- Monty Wiseman
-  Steven Carbno 
- Alfred Strauch
## Agenda
- Review HBOM diagram
- Review life cycle diagram
- Review physical hardware components
* Discuss data requirements for HBOMs 
## Notes
*
## Decisions
* Review of hbom digram 
- Virtual flag review - external dependancy needs to be define relationship
- Virtual flag does not identify duplicate VM of fifferent machines
- Flag can be attached to multiple components
- Life cycle could be an enumeration rather than a string
- Physical does not apply to virtual flags - illustrated to lable section
- Should date of product release important? Will it match a specific product? Backup check - Is release and product date are the same? Should it be copyright date? One time product products is a consideration?
- Option: large production profile vs low production?
- Informaiton Element list has relationship to Life Cycle 
- Identified issue of recall as part of end of life
- Change end of end of life to creation date with start and end 
- Establish dimension field and/or units of measure - center of mass to be included 
- Dimensions as shipped or as assembled
- Standards of measure investigation
- Supply chain profile may be needed
- is a cable a hardware component? Consider a packing list
- Defining hardware - do you include buttons and pieces? How is it defined?
- Assembly discussion - separate conversations run simutaneously 
- Harmonize software Life Cycle 
- Release data is unclear - production date
- Ownership of or manufacturrer of? 

## Action Items
* standards of measure investigation
- Need for supply chain profile reference to SPDX tech team
- See life cycle vocabulary - build

## Next SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2024-03-22
