# SPDX Operations Profile Team Meeting 2024-04-12

## Attendees

* Victor Lu
* Matthew Crawford
* Ummo Schwarting
* Marcel Kuzmann
* Adrian Diglio

## Notes

* Marcel presented proposed fields. We also discussed internal migration of components. 

Hi all,
as discussed last time in March, I prepare the json-scheme with the additions for the “fact sheets” we use.
Unfortunately I didn’t manage yet to setup the git-environment, therefore I share it as attachment.

The json schema “business_and_export_control_schema.json” (which I also tested on this website as recommended by Ummo: https://json-editor.github.io/json-editor/ ) 
Excel table SPDX_mapping.xslx tries to map fields with existing transaction and SPDX-3.0 field (still WIP) to avoid redundancies.

Adrian: shared with Microsoft. I liked how this was categorized. Properties, algorithm, certificate, certificate, related, protocol, security level, QID, trust levels, scanner, detector context, general considerations. 

however, how something was implemented was overlooked. Could there be hybrid scenarios when two components are used and how do you describe how they are used together? Could it be free text in the first instance and then some form of linkage in the specification highlighting dependencies? 

We talked about next steps for the technical team.

Victor posted this: https://cyclonedx.org/news/cyclonedx-v1.6-released/

## Actions

* Marcel to send Ummo new fields. 
* Adrian to talk to Kate/Gary about additional fields. 