# SPDX Operations Profile Team Meeting 2024-10-11

## Attendees

* Ummo Schwarting
* Matthew Crawford
* Marcel Kurzmann

## Notes

* Enumerations/lists with external data sources are described in the markdown files, e.g. with a hyperlink to the external source. There is no further processing done on them.
* The Draw.io images in spdx-3-model/images/ have to be updated manually. When switching over from the current Mermaid visualization, we need to address the extra work of maintaining the Draw.io.
* 'Connecting the dots' is able to display working states of the SPDX model. We would need to run 'spec-parser' to generate the *spdx-model.ttl*, *spdx-context.jsonld* and *model.json* file (that’s the dump file of spec-parser) and then load it into dots. There used to be a button for manually loading an ontology but It has benn removed to avoid confusion. It can maybe be added again.
* Marcel is 80 % done with preparing a pull request for markdown class descriptions.


## Homework

* Marcel: Prepare PR for Markdowns - to be expected: subfolders "Classes" and "Properties", Maybe also "Vocabularies" with the respective markdowns below as Input for a review next week at least for 1-2 examples (check behaviour is comparable to the Securtiy Profile upfront)
* Matthew: chase up the SPDX slack channel.
* Matthew: find an etherpad for homework notes
* Ummo: talk to Ilan about hosting a 'dots' instance with the Operations draft
* Ummo: write class descriptions from the original draft into spdx-3-model markdown files for content brought in by Ummo
* Ummo: commit meeting notes to https://github.com/spdx/meetings/tree/main/operations