# Business team Meeting Minutes for 27 February 2014

## Attendees

  - Jack Manbeck
  - Scott Lamons
  - Mark Gisi
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Matt Germonprez
  - Phil Odence
  - Mike Dolan
  - Norm Glaude
  - Mary Hardy

## Agenda

1.  Roll Call
2.  Introduction of new Co-Chair
3.  Approve previous minutes
    (http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Business\_Team/Minutes/2014-02-13 )
4.  Recurring Actions (just get status updates)
    1.  Publishing of SPDX 2.0 Requirements Document – Jack/Kirsten
    2.  Publishing of archived license lists on the web site (on hold
        for Collab Summit)
    3.  Publication of License List access document (okay I need a
        better term) – Gary
    4.  Tech report Framework – Mark
    5.  Google Summer of Code – Michael, Gary or Matt
5.  Linux Collab Summit Track for SPDX (see below)
6.  SPDX Ecosystem Discussion and Whitepapers

  

## Notes

  - Mikael was unable to make the meeting so we will save the
    introduction for the next call.

<!-- end list -->

  - Previous minutes were approved.

<!-- end list -->

  - Recurring Actions
      - SPDX 2.0 requirements is ready to go. Mark to work with Kirsten
        to put it through the Tech Report Framework.
      - Tech re-port Framework is ready to go. Mark has submitted one
        document. Needs feedback from TRF reviewers. In particular they
        should look at the document template as we want to use a
        standard one. Discussed adding a disclaimer to the document to
        say whether it was published by SPDX or by an
        individual/company, Once we have everything ready to go we will
        add a link from the main web site to the TRF wiki page. Likely
        after collab summit. Mark will send the review document to
        everyone who was on the call.
      - Five students have responded to the Google Code of Summer for
        SPDX. Matt is going to follow up with them. Matt is unsure how
        proposals by students get accepted. Jack suggested working with
        our LF contact to find out. Matt and Gary have volunteered to be
        mentors for the students.; may need more.
      - Gary to send out on the mailing list the latest document on
        programmatic access to the license list for review. he should
        work with Mark to get it into the TRF as well

<!-- end list -->

  - Linux Collab Summit Track
      - Jack presented the track to the busines team. Team wanted to add
        a presentation by Gary to go over programtic access to the
        license list. Jack to work with LF to add. Track is posted on
        the SPDX website.

<!-- end list -->

  - SPDX Ecosystem Discussion and Whitepapers
      - Had a general discusson on this with thoughts form people
        attending.
      - Team agreed that doing vetrtical specific whitepapers was a good
        idea vs. a generic consumer and producer document. Vertical
        whitepapers would be easier to produce abd could be tailored to
        areas showing how SPDX would fit in and be useful.
      - Discussed having an ecosystem picture that showed how
        indvividuals/entitites form companies to open source communities
        fit together and what they would produce/consume with respect to
        SPDX. This would give people a sense of where they fit in and
        what was expected of them. Would also allow SPDX to send a
        clearer picture, e.g. Do open source communities produce SPDX
        documents or do they use the SPDX license identifier or both or
        is it a choice, etc.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
