# SPDX Defects Team Workshop - April 19th 2023

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Bob Martin
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* Kate Stewart
* Sean Barnum

## Agenda
* Continue  to work on the model
* VEX representation in model

## Notes
### Continue to work on the model
* Gary: can we merge the open security model PR? Wait until after this call with updates
* Thomas has a few use case examples to review
* Sean question: The current model has vulnerability as a subclass of artifact? Seems like it should be subclass of element
* Vulnerability has "published" and "withdrawn" categorizations but doesn't have anything that actually references the vulnerability - will it use external reference or identifier? Yes
* Subclass type called `externalSecurityIdentifier`; what is the meaning of `source` property for this identifier? Proposal to take it to tech and add two properties to externalIdentifer - `locator` and `issuingAuthority`.
  * issuingAuthority - how is it different from an "issuer"? - A: answers who is the authority that owns that id?
* https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/NSTAC_Strategy_for_Increasing_Trust_Report_%282-21-23%29_508_0.pdf
* Score is optional but severity is required?
  * How does noassertion come in to play with severity?

### VEX representation in model
* Q: Are we supporting specific serializations or more generic
  * A: want to represent generically using just the VEX metadata
* Topics to discuss from the tech meeting:
  * Released inside categorization
  * How to link to the product (root package)
  * Be able to link to sub components of root package with different Vex status messages 
  * Multiple instances of the same subcomponent
* Need to discuss the data fields in VEX, not a specific serialization
* The intent is to represent those data fields which are in common across various VEX implementationsm within SPDX so that if we receive data from these other formats we can store it and not lose any information. Trying to do data modeling here that supports that objective.
* Sean: Looking at the current model diagram - what is the intended superclass of vulnerability categorization?
* Status information will change frequently at different pace than SBOM lifecycle
* We want to separate status fields from vulnerability information fields
* Key concept of VEX is how a specific CVE affects a product. We don't have concept of product in SPDX but let's consider it the top level application/package in the SBOM
  * Let's model it after this (page 2): https://ntia.gov/sites/default/files/publications/sbom_overview_20200818_0.pdf
    * This is consistent with NTIA modeling
* Do we point from vulnerability to subpackage or from vulnerability to top level package or both? You could also point to the relationship (relationship to relationship)
* Sean: suggest VEX relationship be subclass of relationship
* Will this profile have the requirement that it be able to transform to CDX like some of the other profiles?
  * That is ideal but unclear right now
* Henk: Please consider that each vex/vdr/sbom can be sealed at any time, which would render each modification/ammend to it an additional document 
* Supplier will be a relationship
* Want to model that the same CVE might be associated with two different packages in a product but only "affects" one (in vex-speak). How to model this?
  * Sean proposes that the simplest way in subclass of relationship called `VexRelationship` and relationship type can convey the status (affected/not affected) and `impact`/`justification`/`source` properties can go directly to the relationship
    * What about date published and date modified? That can just be added on to the `vexRelationship` subclass
    * We were told to reuse semantically similar stuff from core for VEX spdx docs... does it apply here?  
      * https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/package-information/#725-release-date - more applicable for build profile instead of security
    * Add published and modified timestamp fields for VEX relationships.
    * Vulnerability element will have its own publish date (from issuing authority) and `vexRelationship` will have its own publish date that reflects the affected/notAffected relationship status
* What do we do if a notAffected status changes to affected?
  * Can't modify element once published but you can refer to them from a different document
  * Amends is a relationship - "x amend y" where x is the updated element
    * Add this example to the model
  * Jeff wants to see "published" become "firstPublished" for clarity and "update" become "lastUpdated"
    * Sean VexFirstIssued or VexFirstPublished to be really clear and not confuse with other relationships
    * Team decides on `vexPublished` and `vexLastUpdated` for `vexRelationship` type
    * Henk's wish list item: prefers replaces over obsoletes (we will discuss this later)
* 3 hour working session to finish the model scheduled for Friday 4/21 10am PT - Rose will send invite to todays participants
