# SPDX Defects Team Workshop - Jan 11, 2023
## Attendees
* Adolfo García Veytia
* Kate Stewart
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* Rose Judge
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Cox

## Agenda
- Approve past minutes
- Blog post
- Continue work on defect model

## Notes
### Approve past meeting minutes
* https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/259
* https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/251

### Blogpost
* See https://www.linux.com/featured/why-you-should-use-spdx-for-security/
* SPDX Defects is currently working on the SPDX Security Profile, the idea was that we support handling security issues before moving onto other defects related topics see WG's [charter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/189VtcPVCVZGl5j1NZL4HTO54iQAWtVwn6wcDHkDiHFQ/edit#)

### Continue work on defect model
* Feed back from the tech call. 
  * William: Propose to move `vulnerabilityID` into `externalReference` so you can know the authority which the id belongs to. Something similar [here](https://github.com/CycloneDX/bom-examples/blob/master/VEX/vex.json#L8-L20).
* Kate: CVE's have authors, scores, CPE info and history, etc so why are we duplicating vulnerability creator/fixer/distributor/etc?
* Adolfo: weird to say CVE was supplied by an organization
* Need a relationship ISSUED_BY <CVE issuing authority> -- when you generate the SBOM you would say where you got the CVE info from
* How does the consumer of the SBOM know in all of the external refs, what is the original link or source for this identifier? 
  * Adolfo: What is the purpose of capturing that in the document?
  * Thomas: if I have a CVE and there is other CVE-related information in CVE links. 
  * Adolfo: in general, independent CVE generating authorities can assign IDs.
  * Thomas: NVD is the registry for the ID. There may be multiple which makes it hard to find.
  * Adolfo: CVE #, who issued the CVE, where you are pulling the information from (sourcer) and different aliases for CVEs.
  * Thomas: we need a mechanism for provenance of a CVE
  * Kate: isn't categorization implied in the type? i.e. EPSS system will already have this instead of us trying to discover this. Shouldn't people be looking at EPSS to determine provenance? Isn't the link the identifier in this system?
  * Thomas: I can have an EPSS system inside my org, I want to link to the inside of the system; This is what CDX also does. for each info they provide you, they show you the source -- where did this thing come from. We can't do this with relationships in SPDX. We need to develop a new property that can point to an entity. We need a unique source for each ID.
* Henk: I would love to look at minimal VEX elements that we [discussed in tech call](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uZPzQUoeoaCTaEmd7nQDf4lCl5ctpsNANh0phNC7IL0/edit#heading=h.eaoui9ijcxdz). There are actual names in there that seem to be more stable.
* Let's do a rundown of the Minimum Reqs for a VEX:
    * Cdx rushed to put out VEX for implementation while CISA was working on their own.
    * When cdx forked their own implementation the idea was to have a guiding document (which is not a specification on how to VEX) but to have a document that answers, if I *do* have a VEX implementation what are minimum elements to interoperate with other vex implementations? Also, how do I infer the information that is missing?
    * If I have two documents with the same statement about the same products... can I effectively know the current impact status of vulnerability regarding a product? One entity can say this product is not affected but new info comes from a different entity in different implementation adding to that knowledge that says it is. Want to be able to have them update the same VEX for one source of information.
    * Both statements need to have a date associated with them to understand timeline.
    * Henk: [this document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uZPzQUoeoaCTaEmd7nQDf4lCl5ctpsNANh0phNC7IL0/edit#heading=h.eaoui9ijcxdz) is all over the place, surprised it will be released as 1.0
    * Adolfo: Requirement status of a lot of fields are confusing -- comes from keeping minimum reqs interoperable with tool implementations which are already out there (agreement that this is not the best way)
    * Henk: If we conform SPDX to this, we are forced to make SPDX a VEX implementation, but we inherit weird things that are minimums. Maybe we decide not to do that? Maybe we highlight this and say it's optional with us.
    * Adolfo: Tools being released to work with VEX documents; concern that SPDX implementation does not work well with that. 
    * Having an identity of who is expressing this VEX statement (can be different from who is giving you the document)
    * If we put in external references we don't have capabilities to link ID (CVE) and source; it's just an array.
    * Jeff: Are you saying we need a relationship between the ID and the source? i.e. SOURCE relationship -- linking metadata for the vuln and metadata for the external reference? Thomas: No.
    * Referencing [this doc](https://github.com/CycloneDX/bom-examples/blob/master/VEX/vex.json) -- Can we model source as a categorization?
    * Jeff: suggest we add `VulnerabilityCategorization` property `source_url` and make it optional, this is more important to capture than source_name, e.g. "SNYK" in CDX example above
      * Adolfo: It's not important to know that SNYK is the one saying it, but what you may find while going throgh other reports is you will find other names of vulnerabilities, i.e. identifier from GitHub. Sometimes it's useful to have CVE123 but it also has these other names. We want to know correlating aliases.
        * Jeff: agreed. We can list each alias as an external identifier which is already in the core model (they have a type and an IRI). Then would also need to make a relationship between the two.
    * Adolfo: I am happy to go through the VEX document to make sure SPDX is covering the minimum elements.
    * We changed the model from `VulnerabilityIdentifier` to `ExternalIdentifier`.
    * If I have a vulnerability, how do I know which package it applies to? We have a new relationship type ADVISORY. Vulnerability is an ADVISORY of pakage ABC -- And I can have one vulnerability apply to many packages? Correct? Yes
