# SPDX Defects Team Workshop - Jan 18, 2023
## Attendees
* Bob Martin
* Jeff Schutt
* Rose Judge
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Cox

## Agenda
- Continue work on defect model

## Notes
### Continue work on defect model
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/tree/security-profile
- Is everyone ok with CVE as external identifier type?
- Will this always only apply to software? We said originally this will be software but will keep the door open to hardware.
- We should try to keep this neutral. i.e. Intel silicon might need a new overlay, how do we model that in the future
  - Everything we are modeling now does not preclude us from modeling hardware in the future.
- Other vulns outside of CVE identifiers
- Here we are discussing external identifiers for vulnerabilities (ways which different companies may refer to the same security flaw)
- `securityOther` --> proposal to change to `vulnIdentifier` since we are trying to convey identifier scheme
- The other question is *who* assigned this identifier (i.e. Snyk, GitHub, etc), it might not always be obvious who the author is (is this done by the external identifier type?)
- Two questions to answer:
  1) Which type of identifiers do we want for vulns
  2) How do we describe the source or author?
- Evolve identity model with 3.1
- Link -- places to get to get more info instead of putting it in the model
- Source should be where the locator reference is
- A simple fix would be to create an external security identifier that extends external identifier and add a field called "content identifier" which would be a URI
- Maybe we have one to many relationship: CVE ID with many other IDs that correlate to it. One or more publishers of that information. what does the graph look like to make it semantically meaningful? Right now just listing as IDs we lose semantic info.
- Do we want to place CVE as the "top" ID that everything stems from? 
- As a consumer I may not know anything about the SPDX identifier but I could use it as a correlation
- Other identifiers may have an ID that is used until a CVE is created for it.
- Do we have a type of priority where CVE is #1? (No)
- ExternalSecurityIdentifier --> ExternalSecurityInfo? Or, We could put CVE into the vulnerability class - may be incomplete until one is assigned but then it could be part of the security profile instead of being this external thing.
- Or, vulnerability class inside security profile includes property called `cveIdentifier` and gets populated when you have it.
- externalSecurityIdentifier has a `source` - should source link directly to CVE page or just the general source (i.e. snky.com/CVE123 or snyk.com) Preference is more specific link
- Next week Jeff and Bob will not make it because of a NIST workshop - do we want to cancel? Yes
- Target is to finish this model in the next month or so
