# SPDX Defects Team Workshop March 3, 2023

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Dick Brooks
* Jeff Schutt
* William Cox
* Henk Birkholz
* Kate Stewart

## Agenda
* Approve meeting minutes from last week
* Continue working on defects specification

## Notes
### Approve Meeting minutes
* No minutes from last week

### Documenting the defects specification
* Working here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZT_w3HiW6LJjouRlw3xHXPnmy7ArwOdlw4vpzIjS9_o/edit
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/main/model.png
* Thomas met with William in Berlin this week. William is working on how to make the spec into a webpage - what format do we need to follow so it's compatible? William says follow the format of the build profile and he will work on a tool to do the actual rendering.
* Kate asked us to priotize defining the advisory relationship so we can add this to the document summarizing differences between SPDX 2.x and 3.0 (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-olHRnX1CssUS67Psv_sAq9Vd-pc81HF8MM0hA7M0hg/edit#)
* Discussion around ADVISORY_FOR and HAS_ADVISORY (consistent with exisiting relationships in 2.x spec) vs just ADVISORY for a more bilateral definition. Decision to use just ADVISORY for a loose coupling to inidicate security-related relationship between an artifact and a vulnerability. Using the FOR and HAS relationships has potential to duplicate the same information (i.e. `vulnerability ADVISORY_FOR package` and `package HAS_ADVISORY vulnerability`)
* Q: Relationship must go from Element to Element - what elements does ADVISORY connect to? A: Package and Vulnerability 
* "Created" - creating an element in a document - "Published" is if the vuln has been published outside the document in public. 
* Kate is thinking published is ambiguous - Should indiciate the pubishing of the vulnerability itself as opposed to the description of the vulnerability in the SPDX document.
* Pushback that "publish" is a common term in the vulnerability world
* Kate is fine with the field being "published", wants a more clear definition. Agreement to define it as "Identifies when the vulnerability was published by a vendor or coordinator"
