# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2026-03-17

## Attendees
* Alfred Strauch
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Bob Martin
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Greg Shue
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Nicole Pappler
* Olle Johansson
* Peter Monks
* Sanket Modi
* Siddharth Kundu
* Steve Winslow
* Steven Carbno
* Ted Gauthier

## Agenda
1.  Approval of last week's minutes
2.  Announcements & New participants
3.  Joint meeting with Legal - Extension of License List Metadata

---

## Notes

### Announcements
* Java library released
* **New Participant: Sanket Modi (CleanStart Security)**
    * Leads Community and Integration team at CleanStart Security. I am exploring SPDX, how to generate SBOM better for containers.
* **New Participant: Siddharth Kundu**
    * Software Engineer looking to get better insights
* Dick flagged [https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3597503.3623347](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3597503.3623347) research

### Extension to Licenses List Metadata (CleanStart Security)
* Alexios comment on the additional license data here: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1229](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1229)
* **Peter:** Java/Maven licensing ecosystem is a mess due to historical evolution prior to SPDX
    * Maven mandates project licensing without quality checks.
    * 65 Million projects with garbage licensing info.
    * Interest in Clojure (adopts what Java does), based on Maven
    * Assumptions of Apache 2.0 is good info, if not explicitly.   
    * Peter's tool makes assumptions on licensing with confidence associated with it. Version series term - Apache, Apache1.0, Apache 2.0 - historical revisions to one core license text. 
    * [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1182](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1182)

#### Steve Winslow:
* 4 Principles about what should be in SPDX licensing list metadata (and / or SPDX metadata)
* Open Source compared to Open Standards, principles from legal team members.
* High bar to modify existing metadata, due to downstream. Gaps that can't be fixed in any other way. 
* AdditionRef was most recent change. Discussed over many years, but was workable for gaps and needs.
* What should be modeled in SPDX meta data, is best for interchange between supply chain. "Just the facts", what can be rep'd in SPDX metadata - what a thing is, and what licensing applies to it. Compliance is up to legal interpretation at specific organizations and policies for compliance. Goes into field has been excluded from SPDX metadata.
* Downstream communities should be able to make any use of SPDX identifiers as they decide (example: REUSE - adding in copyright, etc. downstream for SPDX project itself).   
* SPDX for licensing metadata - favoring simplicity over complexity. Additions being added to license list over time.
* Effort away to defined and maintained metadata

### Discussion
* **Peter:** What is associated with a supply chain (should not need to repeat global true reference data in SBOMs is a design flaw). These are reference data about listed licenses. SPDX does project publishes templates for matching, FSF libre, OSF approved - reference data outside supply chain. Predates the time. 
* **Value vs. Cost of license list**
* **Peter:** Fixing problems upstream, in Maven, from influencers is right place. Short window in which Maven can change in our lifetime - release candidate in process. 15 years cycle after Maven 4.0. Timing opportunity.
* Maven ecosystem is very large - order of magnitudes larger than linux kernel. Version series helps clarify 
* Version Series - tool explains background why conclusion made.  
* Here’s where the “compendium” argument was first (to my knowledge) expressed: [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1181#issuecomment-3747298636](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1181#issuecomment-3747298636)
* Version series can be made factual by the "stewards". 
* Using 300K sample from Maven, most do exist in a version series. It's not that the number is large that matters - vast majority does appear in a series. 
* Can we capture the fact if the license steward claims a version series? Apache example was discussed.
* Can we consider that SPDX should communicate what the license steward claims as a series?
* Understand the issue with not documenting unclear information, but if the information is clear - like the license text property - can we include it?
* Peter is looking for documentation of a set of sets.
* Jilyane doesn't think it's valuable, due to assumptions being made. 
* **License steward metadata:** [https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1183](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1183) (uses the word “publisher”, but I like the word “steward” better)
* Karsten leverages the concept of "categories" to do simliar effects. 

---

## Backlog
* See backlog at “Backlog” tab: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y)
