# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, May 13, 2021

## Attendees
* John Horan
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Paul Madick
* Anthony Ronda
* Emmanuel Tournier
* Steve Winslow
* Christina Chen
* Candice Wright
* Sebastian Crane
* Mark Atwood
* Ariel Patano

## Agenda

For today's call, we will be finalizing a last couple issues for 3.13 before I push the release shortly, and then turning to 3.14 issues. Also discuss Zoom / Jitsi for meetings going forward. Github usernames.

## Notes

### GitHub access

Adding folks to have "read" access for easier use in @-mentions and assigning issues.

### Zoom / Jitsi
* will be switching to using Jitsi as of next meeting. Will be different link than for General meeting and Steve will send revised update to mailing list with new info (and send on mailing list)
* Steve will add a password to the Jitsi meetings that will be in the invites and on the SPDX site.

### License List updates
* five just need to be merged
* added a note to the request new license documentation about licenses that don't get approved for the list but can be referenced in other ways still
* in the CAL 1.0 license (#1252), there was a paragraph missing; Jilayne will open a new issue with the URL and tag Rob for fix

* Issue on 0BSD (#1246) - there was a use case on Gitea where there's already a name in the copyright notice (Rob Landley). On the OSI website, the copyright notice doesn't show up at all - but the discrepancy isn't of great concern (Jilayne). Problem solved: the posters are going to the text version, so the components are not tagged, hence Rob Landley's name shows. Jilayne to comment on how to use the xml list instead. Jilayne moved a few licenses to 3.14, and discussed the remaining outstanding items.
