# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, June 24, 2021

## Attendees
* Christina Chen
* Sebastian Crane
* John Horan
* Warner Losh
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Paul Madick
* Karan Marjara
* Ariel Patano
* Anthony Ronda
* Steve Winslow
* Candice Wright

## Agenda
* Discuss logo variants question from outreach team meeting
* Review Python-2.0 research
* Discuss other 3.14 issues

## Discussion
* outreach team/logos and trademarks: when the spdx logo is put in a profile photo (circle), the edges get cut off because of the horizontal text. Sebastian made a round version of the logo so that he cut put up a complete one in a circle profile space.
  * https://spdx.dev/resources/ - it'd be helpful to have some variants. Steve to talk with LF's creative services (cc outreach mailing list) and trademark lawyer
* Python-2.0 research/Issue #1200: Ariel hasn't been able to use the identifier Python-2.0 since the linked license doesn't match. She notes a few changes from the Python-2.0 license that appear in the wild - especially the CNRI section.
  * proposal - new SPDX identifier stacking all of them together, or break each part into its own identifier
    * decision - add as a stack under Python 3.9.5 AND a Python 3.9.5 without BSD (the BSD is optional)
  * Jilayne to tag Van Lindberg(?) who is with the Pytho Software Foundation to raise objections, if any
* Issue #1275 - changes accepted. Ariel to complete the xml version
* xml files - add an 'alt' tag to suround what is considered replaceable. Give the 'name' part something that is unique within the license file.
* ZPL-2.1 Issue #1277: Christina is tagged
* CC Australian Issue #1274: waiting for a final change from Sebastian before merge
* OPUBL-1.0 Issue #1110: Adjust comments regarding other groups' interpretation of licenses. Sebastian to edit.

## Topics for next call
* Discuss whether to continue displaying the FSF column, knowing that it's not complete
