# SPDX Legal Team minutes, October 14, 2021

## Attendees
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Sebastian Crane
* Vicky Brasseur
* John Horan
* Candice W
* Karsten Klein
* Ariel
* Brad Goldring
* Mike Dolan
* Mark Atwood

## Agenda

* Personal introductions (continued)
* 3.15 release

## Notes

### Personal introductions

* **Mike Dolan**: From the Linux Foundation; works on many projects including standardisation. General interest started at very start of working with LF after learning what Kate Stewart had been doing. Worked with Steve Winslow and Kate Stewart within the LF on SPDX. Hoping to participate more. Lives in Cleveland, Ohio
* **Brad Goldring**: Used to work for Ford, leading their open source compliance program. Was developing the policies as open source become prevelant in the automotive industry. Now at GTC Law, leads aquisitions relating to open source; SPDX is relevant as it helps with the process. located in Windsor, Ontario
* **Mark Atwood**: One of the principle software engineers at Amazon. Are using SPDX extensively at Amazon. Has contributed to SPDX including creating the namespaced license feature of SPDX. Lives near Seattle, 'comfortably far away'!


### Upcoming release

Issues 720, 1007, 1058, and one other all related to variants of OpenSSL exceptions

Jilayne: started to do research on topic. Steve appears to have done work last year to research the history of the licenses. Need someone to pick up this ball, review the issues & PR, and make a recommendation.

[#1104](https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1104): Assigned to Steve. Asking him for an update when he's back from holiday.

[#1194](https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1194): Lots of general talk about US Gov PD handling. Reference to https://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/Decisions/Dealing_with_Public_Domain_within_SPDX_Files_(DRAFT)

[#1223](https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1223): Related to #1315. bzip is doing some odd stuff with versioning their licenses. Closing 1223 in preference to 1315.

### How can we be more productive?

VMB: TODO Group does a quarterly "work day". 90-120 minutes once a quarter when whoever's available works on backlogged stuff

JL: Interesting idea! May look into it more!

Also: Reminder to everyone to check their GH notifications. Keeping on top of those can help knock down the easy ones & save time in the calls.
