# SPDX Legal Team meeting, September 2, 2021

## Attendees
* John Horan
* Anthony Ronda
* Brad Goldring
* Christina Chen
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Winslow
* Paul Madick
* Mark Atwood

## Agenda
* Update on General Meeting
* Issue template
* Discuss open issues for 3.15

## Notes
* SPDX general meeting (right before the legal meeting) discussed governance changes that were sent out in an email by Phil Oden. The changes will likely be approved. They're enacted given how SPDX is becoming more engaged with international standards setting.
* Issues #1223 - 1.0.8 is exactly the same as 1.0.6, save for the non-substantive copyright year chance. Christina to make the last line of 1.0.6 optional text. Use of the spdx identifier 1.0.6 can apply to all later version that have the same substance.
* Issue #1315 - 1.0.5 or 1.0.6 should be deprecated since they're essentially the same. 1.0.5 just includes a note on patent coverage, but it doesn't appear to be part of the license text body. Bzip is still in development so deprecating both and replacing with just "bzip" short identifier isn't practical. They update the license every year, but they don't update the version number every time.
* conclusion - deprecate 1.0.5, have the patent note made optional for 1.0.6.
* Sebastian provided the maintainer, Mark Wielaard, who is different from the Julian Seward listed on the license itself
* Sebastian created a new format of the inclusion principles to make it easier when reviewing new submissions, saving the legal team time (half the size of the origianl inclusion principles). This will be located in the docs directory for people to review. Link is also: https://cryptpad.fr/code/#/2/code/edit/+QRSG-NCjGYM7GSuOMrXOaSB/
* Pull request #1309 was merged (adding a new crossRef URL for 0BSD)
* Pull request #1319 was merged; Sebastian will create a follow-up pull request to add extra formatting as noted in the associated issue.
