# SPDX Legal Team Minutes, October 28, 2021

## Attendees
* Sebastian Crane
* John Horan
* Christina Chen
* Candice W
* Steve Winslow
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Paul Madick
* Karan Marjara
* Brad Goldring
* Warner Losh

## Regrets

* Vicky Brasseur

## Agenda
* Review status and issues / PRs for upcoming 3.15 release, in particular:
  - #1310 / #1336 - license ID rename for pre-release merged "Verbatim-man-pages" license
  - #1223 - bzip2 edits
* If time:
  - discuss mailing list email re: standard license headers
  - discuss mailing list email re: Caldera license

## Notes
* Sebastian attended an OpenChain talk on the Tern tool (for scanning containers), see https://github.com/tern-tools/tern and also https://www.linuxfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/Docker-Containers-for-Legal-Professionals-Whitepaper_042420.pdf
* Warner will present an update re: FreeBSD for next call on Nov 11th
* new person from IRC chat interested and aims to attend next call - yeah!
* Issue #1169 'Unicode' - was missing the Notice to User section and some other details, and Jilayne spoke with Unicode which intends to make some changes to their license (i.e. plaintext which removes the hyperlink to TOS). Question about what and how to make certain sections optional. See issue for resolution
* Issues #1310/PR #1336 'Verbatim' - since this one hasn't been published, would it be okay for this one then to change the ID? Suggestion: Linux-man-pages-copyleft?
  - Agreed to merge the ID change
* Sebastian brought up a discrepancy in the copyright notice between a linux license's txt and html file
  - will be changing the txt to be consistent as sometimes users use the txt file
* Side point: if you log out of Jitsi and log back in, your previous state gets deleted in the chat and you'r referred to as 'Fellow Jitser'
* Issue #1223/#1315 'bzip2' - #1315 is closed correctly, but keep open #1223. Related to PR #1343. Christina to revise in a new PR (as the old one's closed) and add some alt language for the copyright notice.
* Steve to send out his instructions on using Git command line for comments; goal is to post the Git command line instructions for new users instruction
* PR #1341 'COIL 1.0' - request a couple people's feedback before closing
* Should release 3.15 be pushed a couple of weeks?
  - pushed till next weekend - Nov 6/7
* Sebastian will try to fix a bug to the license publisher (?) - adds two spaces to alternate text instead of one
* Fedora has intentions of adoptions SPDX identifiers - not official yet.  SPDX folks could help in meantime with some matching of licenses. Jilayne to send info
* another new-to-Git resource: https://ohmygit.org/ and https://ohshitgit.com/
