# SPDX Legal Meeting Minutes, March 4, 2021

## Attendees
* John Horan
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Paul Madick
* Gary O'Neall
* Kate Stewart
* Emmanuel Tournier
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

A big thank-you to Gary and William for sorting through the details of transitioning the license list CI setup from Travis CI to GitHub Actions. And a thank-you also to Gary for recent updates to the license list publisher tool.

With that now working, we are expecting to release version 3.12 of the license list likely this weekend. So the primary agenda for today's legal team call will be to finalize issues / PRs for inclusion in 3.12.

## Notes

### CI system
* Merges -- merging two PRs at the same time will fail
* not surprising behavior; try to avoid merging a second one until after the first has finished running

### Templates
* Spec to be updated re: which tags can be nested inside other tags
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/429

### Issues
* Steve and Jilayne to sync next week on fixing user roles so we can assign issues properly
* Jilayne will move the remaining 3.12-tagged issues to 3.13
* For next meeting, we will go through and look to make a decision on either handling or closing old issues
* Steve can take the OpenSSL-related issues 720, 1007, 1058
* Comments for various issues included in issue threads

### Redoing the Contributing document
* Highlight how to help move the project forward - e.g. commenting on issues
* Rework by moving some of the existing sections out to the DOCS/ directory
* Remove the "contact details" "How to participate" section from Contributing file, b/c it's in the README

### Next meeting
* Plan to discuss the side projects that Steve and Jilayne have been discussing
* Plan to focus on closing old outstanding issues that have been lingering
