## Attendees

  - David Wheeler
  - Mark Gisi
  - Michael Herzog
  - Peter Williams
  - Paul Madick
  - Tom Incorvia
  - Kevin Fleming
  - Adam Cohn

1\) Discuss status of Adding Licenses proces

  - decided to post proposal from 4/18 meeting on website and send to
    general mailing list for review and mention during tomorrow's
    General Meeting call (JILAYNE to do)

2\) somewhat related and mildly circuitous discussion regarding license
headers/notices, the standard header field on the license list

  - suggestion floated to simply drop this field from the license list
  - another suggestion to change to "yes/no" - as in, yes, the license
    includes a suggested standard header, or no, it does not. rationale
    being that where there is a standard header, it is merely cut and
    pasted from part of the license text anyway, so this is duplicitous
  - in meantime, may need to clarify/revise description of this field
    here
  - value of having standard header field is for identification
    purposes, an additional way to definitively identify it's Foo
    License besides matching on the entire license text (this is
    probably inline with license author's intent of including it\!)
  - all agreed there are many "non-standard" headers in the wild, but
    trying to track those or create that list is another project that we
    can't do (at least not right now)

3\) statements on vision for: a) SPDX work groups, b) legal group
specifically, and c) license list more specifically. Adam proposed the
following as to the first - did not have time to discuss, but would like
to do so and then distribute to other groups. need to draft items for b
and c.

Adam's proposed text:

*"To enable any party in the software supply chain, from the original
author to the final end user, to accurately communicate and understand
the licensing information for any piece of copyrightable material that
such party may create, alter, pass on, or receive, and to make such
information available in a consistent, understandable, and re-usable
fashion, with the aim of facilitating license and other policy
compliance."*

**TASKS FOR NEXT CALL:**

1.  Review Adam's proposed text to discuss on next call - ALL
2.  draft vision/goals statement for legal group, distribute to group,
    so we can discuss on next call - PAUL
3.  draft vision/goals statement for license list, distribute to group,
    so we can discuss on next call - JILAYNE
4.  review current to-do list (see:
    [Legal\_Team/Current\_Projects\_and\_Issues](Legal_Team/Current_Projects_and_Issues "wikilink"))
    and note anything that's missing (need to go over and prioritize on
    subsequent call) - ALL

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
