## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Tom Incorvia
  - Adam Cohn
  - Michael Herzog
  - Paul Madick
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Mark Gisi

## Minutes

(meeting minutes are greatly summarized due to losing original minutes
mid-meeting)

1\) discussed various aspects of recent mailing lists posts in regards
to license list. overarching issue is we don't have enough hands\! do we
need to do some kind of recruiting effort?

community outreach to: Debian, Fedora, Gentoo, Yocto, Suse, Fossology,

  - need to get information for licenses, do a comparison (where does it
    line up, where doesn't it), ultimately come up with a list of
    licenses SPDX needs to add
      - also ask about how exceptions are dealt with (and any adoption
        issues - although may want to have business team involved)
  - might be helpful to add a template of spreadsheet for adding new
    licenses on that process page
  - Jack will talk to Yocto

2\) who will be at LinuxCon in San Diego? Paul - maybe; Tom - no; Adam -
no; Michael - probably not; Mark - no

may use that time for some of the outreach efforts?

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
