July 2, 2019

## Attendees

  - Kate S.
  - AlexiosZ.
  - Tushar
  - Gary O.

## GSoC

  - Evaluations complete
  - All on track
  - Kate to check with Ekong on presenting at general meeting

## License XML Schema

  - Spacing proposal looks good
  - Schema itself is a bit of a mess, Gary to add issue
  - Agreed to accept schema and remove the optional tags from HTTPS â€“
      - Gary to propose updating the license guidelines

## SPDX 2.2

  - Question on publishing multiple versions
      - Kate will check with Jack on if the students have this covered
  - Will start rebasing pull requests to the development branch next
    week

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
