July 16, 2019

## Attendees

  - Steve Winslow
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Alexios Zavras
  - Krys Nuvadga
  - Paul Madick
  - Philippe Ombredanne,
  - Rohit Lodha
  - Tanjong Smith
  - Vladimir Sitnikov
  - Uday Korlimarla
  - Kate Stewart

## Recording

Recording available at
<https://zoom.us/recording/share/i586KdwLMoj7_2RfgvIC3iTRls81Y0rQl3ohnp9kGoqwIumekTziMw>

## GSoC

  - Tanjong - promotion to license repository method, questions and
    suggestions welcomed for the namespace repository.
  - Tushar - some suggestions about code give
  - Uday and Philippe – Ndip has made good progress so far, shared info
    about data stats. Working prototype is there. Ndip - dealing with
    flooding.
  - Rohit - student is a bit behind, but seems to be catching up.
  - Philippe - ahead of schedule for original plan. Working on
    enhancements to python library.
  - Krys - .pdf/html documentation - students making good progress.
    Internal links in .pdf now work. Natish working on language
    conversion, but some snags. Wordpress library plugin template going
    well.

## Tech and Legal SPDX call

  - Workflow: Monitoring issues – bot teams monitor both sets of issue?
      - Recommend subscribing both, tagging technical issues in legal,
        and visa version.
  - Use filter listed of topics from tags.
  - This call will be used for figuring out from the filtered list.

## Legal team issue to discuss with tech team

  - We have short form identifier format for licenses in source code.
  - Should there be something similar for copyright notices. No
    prescribed format, but here is a prefix that can be used to find
    them. FSFE reuse version has proposed “SPDX-Copyright:”, lengthy
    discussion in github <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/122>.
    Concerns from legal side, implying that SPDX has a copyright in it,
    or the format is recommended by SPDX, and other things that the
    legal team was ok with. More comfort to the exact tag used in SPDX
    specification - SPDX-FileCopyrightText: <copyright notice>
  - Instructs someone reading the code that plops into the specific
    name.
  - Call - one way to add SPDX information inside files - then use exact
    tag name as defined in the spec.
  - Philippe: concerns about asking for structured copyright information
    is only value of adding SPDX-Copyright.
  - Steve: Legal concern does not want to prescribe one format over
    another, so not sure that SPDX project should be doing this.
  - Philippe: Don’t see why we shouldn’t follow
    <https://dep-team.pages.debian.net/deps/dep5/#copyright-field>

Since change is lets do it right, regex, any generic is fine. Broader
discussion.

  - Vladimir: could SPDX-Copyright:… reference a file?
  - Gary: If the FileCopyrightText is in an SPDX document, it could
    reference a file. For this proposal, the tag would be in the file
    itself. Tools could then generate a valid SPDX document from the
    source file parseable information.
  - SPDX-Fieldname:value - will have some places where it won’t make
    sense.
  - Does it make sense to indicate which ones actually make sense?
      - Alexios - just an indication want to share information, rather
        than authorative.
      - Gary - makes sense to go through the specific level fields, does
        this field make sense. The follow are ones that have been
        discussed and may be in use.
      - Probably a good idea to make up a table. Explain why not
        identifer, checksum, etc.
  - Agree to put Files & Packages fields, and put information in table
    on the ones that make sense, and an explanation of for the ones that
    don’t.

## Namespace topic

  - reviewed GSoC project
    <https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/projects/#5604490302980096>
  - need to be registered vs -. do not need.
  - possibly make a fully currated for the registered list.
  - Do we have fully uncurrated - first come, first serve, be their name
    on official list of spdx list promoted registry.
  - Philippe - understand legal concern, but intent is just to have
    known strings being used as prefix. With ok with no registry.
  - Gary - project proposal was already agreed by technical and legal.
    Change nature of considerations to what can we do to make this
    sucessful, and implementable processes.
  - Alexios - separate registry of namespaces from registry licenses.
    Don’t see this easy to be automated - we need namespace registry.
  - Gary follow up call? Yes, proposing when Legal team spot would be
    this thursday.
  - Philippe willing to pilot namespaces about Namepace for
    ClearlyDefined & ScanCode.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
