October 15, 2019

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Alexios Zavras
  - Philippe Ombredanne
  - Kate Stewart
  - Nisha Kumar
  - Steve Winslow
  - Jim Hutchinson
  - Rose Judge

## JSON / YAML Formats

  - Working on tooling for JSON and YAML – Java and Python libraries
    both have prototype implementations
      - started discussion in Dec. 2017 - yes, did want to support,
        challenge was making it real. Lot of discussion - multiple
        formats helps adoption. YAML, JSON & XML got the nod.
      - Initial prototype done in Java tools to show all 3 formats.

Python tools was enhanced over summer to include JSON & YAML

  -   - Golang tools - Just Tag Value for now, RDF sitting separate
        branch, missing JSON & YAML
      - Using examples in github as the base:
        <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/tree/new-formats/examples>

  - Several issues have been tagged with “new format” label

  - Issue \#143 - which of the two terms do we use?
    
      - proposal is go with TagValue spdxVersion: SPDX-2.0.
      - RDF is: spdx:specVersion.
      - Consensus is to got with TagValue for JSON, YAML, and revisit
        merging this in 3.0
      - Alexios: How was SPDXJSONExample-v2.0.json generated - has both
        spdxVersion & specVersion in it? Gary - agree - its a mistake.
        Will fix.

  - Steve: Sample JSON document - looking at fields part of creation
    info section.
    
      - Structuring of Document Creation info, in example creation info
        is separated out
      - Discrepancy between model and way document is structure with
        SpdxDocument vs Creation Information. Sections in spec are not
        aligning with model in this area, and should be clarified.
      - Any representation that includes a heirarchy should include
        reference to model.

For YAML & JSON - it is following model description.

  -   - Steve - For 3.0 - this is an area to revisit the UML model &
        spec. Things more related to license list should also be
        revisited. Want to make sure we have coherence to the
        Specification and the model.
      - Gary - Once we’ve agreed what’s in 2.2, we need to do a review
        of the model to make sure it includes the data.
      - Rose: who owns creation info, if multiple tools? Gary - can have
        multiple creators and tools.

  - Issue \#115 - JSON file structure design.
    
      - documentDescribes - change structure to have key file or package
      - Steve: For files not associated with package? Heirarchy of
        elements describes - required relation in RDF, but implied in
        TagValue. If more than one package or set of files. Kate: This
        was way to structure the document, and where to start (top level
        items).
      - Gary: Resolution: adopt Xavier’s approach for structuring. Steve
        is agreement. (others crickets)

  - Issue \#114 - JSON, YAML, and XML do contain namespace.
    
      - its in JSON - line 20 has spdxDocumentNamespace —\> change to
        documentNamespace. Note its same tool, so should be there.
      - Resolution: change the name to be consistent with the spec.

  - Issues \#96 - Related SPDXelement format.
    
      - Line 113 in JSON has example.
      - Annotations and relations are property of element that contains
        relationship in JSON & YAML.
      - Rather than have relationship object contained within specific
        object. One advantage of way is more navigatable, but causes
        cycles. Lets make it just as a array of relationships, and pull
        it out. Steve points out that we can avoid reciprocal
        relationships, and resolution of relationships. With the current
        approach, can’t describe some things unless object present in
        document.
      - Pull it out to be separate array seems to be where it goes.
      - Structure as subject element id, relationship, object element
        id. (subject on left side of relationship, object on right side)
      - Cleans up code to do it this way.
      - Steve - 3.0 discussion, get rid of reciprocal relationships, if
        we don’t need them, to simplify relationships. AI: open issue to
        track.

  - Issue \#95 - camelcase
    
      - Nisha points out she hasn’t seen XML parsers having issues
        dealing with lowerCamelCase.
      - Gary and Kate like the consistency between RDF, JSON, YAML, XML.
      - Gary for tools it is a lot of work to do custom coding.
        Simplifies code.
      - Alexios notes reference \#143.

  - Issue \#55 - no new issues raised.

  - Next Steps: merge in examples as is. Then pull requests against to
    resolve issues.

Future discussion: how to represent in Specification.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
