## Attendees

  - Kim Weins
  - Pierre Lapointe
  - Steve Cropper
  - Kate Stewart
  - Pierre Lapointe
  - Scott Lamons
  - Mike Gisi
  - Phil Odence
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Esteban Rockett
  - Kamal Hassin

## Agenda

  - Beta Updates
  - Web Site Review
  - Discuss upcoming events

## Minutes

  - Beta Sites
      - OpenLogic-Antelink
          - Kickoff today
      - Windriver-HP
          - Started the Kickoff
          - Working through issues to get tools running on the Windriver
            platform
      - TI-Motorola
          - Had an initial call. Jack is going to run point.
          - Identified one thread of Android to use in the Beta process
          - Jim Van Persom - circled back with Gary
          - Kickoff - scheduled for next week
      - Kate is looking at another potential Beta
          - Also talking to Daniel German re doing SPDX file for Linux
            kernel (a formal release) - using Ninka
          - Trying to prototype tools
      - Cisco - might want to get involved in Beta
          - Also talked to Jim Zemlin/Karen Copenhaver re LF getting
            involved in doing SPDX Beta for Linux kernel
          - Concerned about alignment between different SPDX files from
            different people
          - Issues re sample files on website
      - Discussion re SPDX for Linux kernel
          - Getting SPDX from copyright holder is great per Mark Gisi.
            However, thinks, that it may be hard because of amount of
            work.
      - How do we handle jars that may have other stuff inside --
        thought was handling as conjunctive licenses. Could also handle
        as a separate SPDX file.
  - Web Site Re-design
      - Discussed with Steve and Martin re current technical setup for
        SPDX website.
      - It's one website with FOSSbazaar - shared users, db, etc- just
        different content
      - Uses Drupal 6
      - Martin will set up a sandbox for SPDX so they can experiment and
        determine what we want and what technology will work.
      - Currently Martin is taking care of SPDX and FossBazaar -- can do
        small changes. If want bigger changes, need to get in touch with
        LF re technical resources to help with website
      - Content
          - Working on personas --- understand the types of
            people/profiles and their path
      - Phil O -- Offered help to make interim fixes to current website,
        based on design discussions so far, if needed.
      - Kim to try to re-org Wiki
      - Try to get highest priority
  - Events (to try to speak at)
      - LinuxCon NA - Phil applied to have half hour at LinuxCon to talk
        re SPDX, Kate, Kim
      - LinuxCon Europe - possibly Kim or Phil O
      - LinuxCon Brazil
      - Possibly at Linux Plumbers as a BOF - depending on
      - Possibly other communit conferences, DebConf, ApacheCon,
        EclipseCon etc.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
