## Agenda

  - Beta program update
  - Volunteers for beta coordinator
  - Beta materials
  - Product management question on tools reqts

## Participants

  - Kim Weins
  - Phil Koltun
  - Phil Odence
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Mark Gisi
  - Esteban Rockett
  - Scott Lamons
  - Jilayne Lovejoy

## Notes

  - We reviewed status of Beta sites.
      - 3 confirmed trading partner pairs
          - HP - WindRiver
          - Motorola - TI
          - Antelink - community project (OpenLogic will create SPDX
            file for Antelink)
      - Possibles - still determining
          - Mentor Graphics
          - ASUS
          - Alcatel-Lucent (as another trading partner for HP)
          - Fedora

<!-- end list -->

  - Beta coordinators
      - We asked for volunteers to be beta coordinators. They will help
        project manage a particular trading partner pair and make sure
        beta is moving smoothly. VOlunteers are:
          - Kim Weins
          - Phil Odence
          - Kirsten Newcomer
          - Gary O'Neall
      - We may need additional volunteers depending on the number of
        beta sites. Let Kim know if you are interested
  - Beta materials
      - We discussed the materials that will be needed for Beta and who
        volunteered to work on them
          - Process overview (proposed methodology) - still need a
            volunteer
          - Training materials
              - SPDX overview - business - Kim
              - SPDX technical - ask technical team for a volunteer
          - Documentation on tools - Kirsten N to write, Scott L to help
            test/review
          - FAQ on using the spec
              - Kim and tech team for techncial stuff
          - Bug system
      - Timing - goal is to be done with materials be end of March.
        Drafts are due Mar 17. That will give last 2 weeks of Mar for
        review/edits
  - Question on tool requirements
      - Gary O'Neall asked beta participants (3 were on call) for
        preference of RDF vs tag-value format. Beta people wanted to
        check with their technical folks, but general consensus was
        either that they didn't care which format or leaned toward RDF.
      - Kim forwarded questionnaire to Betas after the call to ask for
        add'l feedback

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
