## Attendees

  - Kim Weins
  - Phil Odence
  - Kate Stewart
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Scott Lamons
  - Michael Herzog
  - Phil Koltun
  - Kirsten Newcomer

## Process for Adding New Standard Licenses.

We did not finish discussion, so will continue at next meeting. Notes so
far are below.

  - Anyone can request license to be added through a web form (possibly
    Bugzilla).
  - Information
      - Person Name
      - Email
      - Organization - community/company
      - License name
      - Actual license text
      - URL for where they found license text
      - Comments -- why they want it
      - Example(s) of open source packages/files that use it
      - Why they want it -- is it their own license or is it something
        they have encountered in audits
      - Is it going thru OSI approval?
      - Other notes or we need to know
  - Process
      - First validation/vetting for complete/correct info - contact
        person who submitted it
      - Decision making by group
          - Allow comments in a timeline
          - Start with an open ended time
          - Have business team make decision initially until we see what
            the volume is
              - Shoot for doing this first year unless it's getting out
                of hand
          - Way to batch it - handle at biz team meetings
          - Can have some where we decide to "defer" for now.
          - Business team will decide -- likely based on majority vote
            for people that attended the meeting (at least 5 people and
            1 legal)
          - Publish the ones we will vote on 2 weeks in advance to full
            list. Discussion/comments on biz list.
              - Set up a separate wiki page to keep the list tracked of
                what we are voting on when
      - Later -- Have a more formal committee that makes a decision -
        5-7 people
          - Should have 2 legal spots on community
          - Might want at least one community spot
          - Nominations (including self nominations) make clear the
            requirements
          - Way to adjust if someone is not participating
      - Assignment of standard name
      - Data entered into repo and templatizing is done
      - Review/QA of the data in the repo
  - Suggested Criteria
      - Center of gravity is OSS license but will consider freeware or
        other licenses that are widely encountered. For example would
        consider Sun Binary Licenses. Things that share many/all of OSI
        attributes - but may have additional requirements
      - Not for purely commercial licenses (ex EULA, or Oracle license)
      - License must be publicly accessible
      - License that is seen across multiple projects or on a heavily
        used project
      - License that will be popular in future (eg new version of GPL,
        Apache)
  - Need a statement that we don't necessarily consider all these
    licenses to be open source - just trying to facilitate a way to
    refer to them. Check how Fedora does this (talk to Spot)
  - Timeframe
      - Will need to set expectations for turnaround time

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
