## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Tom Incorvia
  - Jason Buttara
  - Scott Lamons
  - Mark Gisi
  - Paul Madick
  - Tom Vidal
  - Michael Herzog
  - Daniel German

## Agenda

1\) Ruby License: Ruby has a notice at the top of the license stating
the disjunctive licensing choice, which has changed (was Ruby or GPLv2;
now is Ruby or BSD-2-Clause). We had previously decided to drop this
notice text (instead of treating it as a different license). However, it
turns out there are differences in the substantive license text itself.
Issue: how to capture? Ruby does not version the license, so confusion
is easy to occur (anyone know someone there? could we ask them to
version number the license?) What to do in regards to the SPDX LIcense
List?? See attached file for comparison. --\> looking at changelog;
change from GPLv2 to BSD-2-Clause disjunctive choice was in Sept 15,
2010, but not sure when other text changed - appears that other text
changed incrementally, much earlier (in between 1.4 and 1.6 of Ruby)
making it hard to determine where to call it different versions... could
we correspond to releases of project, perhaps?

  - Scott has had contact with someone at Ruby and can correspond to
    ask:

<!-- end list -->

1.  did the substantive text of the license change at all the same time
    (it looks like mostly this occurred in 2001)? Can we get a detailed
    account of what changed when and how that corresponds to various
    releases of Ruby. (from there we can decide together how to proceed
    in naming and for purposes of the SPDX License List)

<!-- end list -->

  - for current SPDX License List purposes - do we leave it as is until
    resolved or take it off the list for now until this is resolved?
    much discussion on pros and cons of these options...

\--\> remove - it is not OSI approved; current situation means we have
text for older version and link to current version, which only adds to
potential confusion/ambiguity in that people will continue to use that
short identifier perhaps incorrectly; SPDX Legal is researching the
variations and communicating with Ruby to come to an accurate
solution/way to represent the different license variations. This will
also raise some awareness around the ambiguity, which is good as some
projects simply say the license is the "same as Ruby's" which does not
even indicate whether the disjunctive choice is GPL or BSD.

## Action Items

1.  Jilayne to take research Daniel did on changes to Ruby license and
    summarize to group; Group can then come up with a proposed solution
    for naming to submit to Ruby project
2.  ALL: review proposed additional guideline in email for meeting
    agenda and comment
3.  ALL: comment/respond to various emails re: matching guidelines
    progress

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
