## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Tom Incorvia, Incorvia
  - Dennis Clark, NexB
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Zac White, Entente
  - Paul Madick, HP
  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Tom Vidal, Abrams Garfinkel Margolis Bergson

## New site and wiki is up\!\!\!

## Public Domain explanation page

see
<http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/Decisions/Dealing_with_Public_Domain_within_SPDX_Files_(DRAFT)>
updated to reflect Jason Buttara's excellent revisions and one small
edit by Jilayne in last paragraph. All on call agreed it looked good, so
will be considered done once updated with proper links and reference to
spec

## Approve final text for SPDX License List Overview page:

please see draft here:
<http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/License_List/Overview_and_License_Inclusion_Guidelines_(draft_for_review)>

  - call for comments/feedback on the general list and meeting last week
    resulted in only a few tweaks as follows:
      - Somewhere early on, probably in the background, we should make a
        parenthetical statement to the effect that the standard is able
        to handle any license, it doesn't have to be on the list. It's
        just more convenient if it is.
          - all on call agreed, sentence to this effect added to end of
            second paragraph
      - whack the para that starts "Although SPDX…" Seems to me the next
        para handles the issue.
          - all on call agreed that having this paragraph was helpful
            and cutting it didn't save that much space, so left it in
      - This seems too strong: "Because the present focus of SPDX is the
        collection and presentation of the open-source software licenses
        contained in a software package, any license that is a candidate
        for inclusion on the SPDX License List must be an "open source"
        license. maybe: "…must have the attributes of an OSS license" or
        "…must be OSS-like…" or "…must be characterized as an…"
          - changed to "must have the attributes of an open source
            license"
          - changes will be made, page posted on official site and the
            draft page on the wiki will go away

## license list issues that came up as Jilayne went to update and release v1.18:

  -   
    A) license list language issue (all licenses on list are in native
    language with links to other official translations. License for
    which this is an issue are "Cecill, EUPL. and now, the German Public
    License
      - discussed that this dovetails with license matching guidelines -
        should official translations be considered equivalent and hence
        only need one short identifier for the license or should we have
        each translation as a separately listed license with it's own
        short identifier?
      - have there been any claims or issues related to translations?
        not that anyone knows of...
          - decided to leave as is, that is with license text included
            for native language and links to official translations in
            the note field. therefore for German Public License, will
            use the German full name and text for purposes of the
            License List; slight update to license overview description
            of fields to make sure this is explained there
              - good issue to add to list for license matching
                guidelines discussion next week at Collab Summit
    B) MITRE Collaborative Virtual Workspace License - had decided to
    add (old license that is OSI approved) but the license text itself
    includes its own 6 clauses plus the text of the GPL and the text of
    the MPL with a choice of either.
      - should license text for matching purposes only be the 6 clauses,
        as whatever license (GPL or MPL) is chosen would/should be
        indicated with the short identifier for those licenses?
      - talked through how this might work within an SPDX document, the
        SPDX License List, and the license matching guidelines...
          - decided in spirit of releasing v1.18 of the license list and
            not making a hurried decision on this topic, which could
            impact the way other similar licenses are dealt with, to
            leave license off list for now and also discuss issue at
            license matching guideline meeting next week.

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
