## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Tom Incorvia, MicroFocus
  - Jason Buttura, Cisco
  - Tom Vidal, AGMB law firm
  - Dennis Clark, NexB
  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Michael Herzog, NexB

## OSI issues update (Jilayne)

  - Martin M sent an email this morning about some issues he found from
    the OSI side; Jilayne responded to Martin's email, copying various
    OSI parties with full list of outstanding issues.
  - Martin found a couple OSI-approved licenses not on the SPDX-LL (that
    have not otherwise been identified as having issues). those are:
    MITRE Collaborative Virtual Workspace License (CVW License) and
    Reciprocal Public License, version 1.1
  - Tom Incorvia to collect info to be added to list (i.e. check license
    text, suggest short identifier, url, etc.), email to group prior to
    next call to discuss as neeed. Presumption is to add, in keeping
    with goal of having all OSI-approved licenses as part of SPDX-LL

## License Inclusion Guidelines (Tom V.)

Tom sent an update via email prior to the meeting to summarize prior
work and last version of draft to remind everyone.

  - discussed current draft and how we got here; decided to go back to
    OSI definition and just include that as starting point, with
    explanation that the SPDX-LL will be broader than the OSI list of
    licenses, and therefore the decision to include a license on the
    SPDX-LL may result in some licenses that do not strictly adhere to
    the OSI definition.
  - Tom Vidal to product revision based on today's discussion for review
    at next call.

## To-Do's & Agenda for next call

  - everyone: review Kirstin's email/proposal sent earlier today and
    provide feedback to her via the email list
  - Tom I is going to do research on OSI licenses to be added
  - Tom V is going to do new revision of License Inclusion Guidelines
    (is this the best name for this document?
  - Jilayne to post public domain info page; then opportunity for
    feedback/word-smithing from group and discuss where else or how
    accessed for this, as per Mark's suggestiong to be included in spec,
    etc.

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
