## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Kirstin Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Tom Incorvia, Micro Focus
  - Paul Madick, HP
  - Mark Gisi, Windriver
  - Tom Vidal,

## housekeeping items

moved a few things around and revised page titles in Legal Team Work
Area ([Legal\_Team/Priorities](Legal_Team/Priorities "wikilink")).
Namely, added a page to track license list request, etc. which Kirstin
will take ownerhip of (and may revise as she sees fit), see:
[Legal\_Team/License\_List/Current\_Issues\_and\_Licenses\_Under\_Consideration](Legal_Team/License_List/Current_Issues_and_Licenses_Under_Consideration "wikilink")

## Fedora list (Paul)

update: timing

  - list is long, so first pass by end of first quarter if he's doing
    whole thing, maybe more likely by May. Discussed possibility of
    chunking it out and delegating bits to others, but no one else on
    call to delegate this time
  - will keep that in mind for help later

## ownership of License List Matching Guidelines

no one new on call to take ownership of License List Matching
Guidelines, so will have to hope for more attendees (new blood\!\!) next
call...

## Jilayne's update

see \#1; also will compile list for OSI license questions and send
before next meeting

## Mark's question about public domain issue

Jilayne summarized past history on this issue and need for a wiki page
explaining thus (some info posted in various places, but needs to be in
one place). Mark suggested that explanation of how to deal with that
scenario to be spelled out in specification. perhaps for "license info
in file" or thereabouts; or should this be in an appendix of the
specification. should also link from SPDX-LL page. Basically, as a user,
one is going to look in the specification or SPDX-LL.

## License Inclusion Guidelines (Tom V.)

no update; plan to review and send memory refresher to group before next
call so that we can pick up the discussion in a prepared way.

## Agenda for next call, 2/14

  - updates all around, as usual
  - update from Kirstin (on process, etc.)
  - Jilayne to post public domain info page; then opportunity for
    feedback/word-smithing from group and discuss where else or how
    accessed for this, as per Mark's suggestiong to be included in spec,
    etc.
  - refresher for the License Inclusion Guidelines

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
