## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Zak White, Entente
  - Scott Lamons, HP
  - Michael Herzog, NexB
  - Daniel German, U. of Victoria
  - Tom Vidal, Abrams Garfinkel Margolis Bergson
  - Phil Odence, Black Duck

## Agenda

**License Matching Guidelines - templates** - discussed various issues
that have come up with templates so far, to further refine process and
guidelines, etc.

  - review/affirmation from last meeting's discussion: no mark-up for
    extraneous text that occurs after the end of license terms (e.g.
    appendix, exhibit, instructions re: how to apply license); will
    cover this with a guideline. Jilayne did a first draft of such a
    guideline, which was sent to group via email. Reproduced below for
    reference

GNU licenses, GPLv2 as example:

  - Preamble - is this part of the license? that is, if someone removed
    the preamble, would it still be okay to call it a positive match to
    the license (GPL or LGPL, various versions)?
  - sentence at start of licensing stating: have seen cases where this
    sentence was omitted, would that still be a match?
      - in both the above cases, inclination was to not make a guideline
        or markup stating this is omit-able, even though in practice, if
        one found the GPLv2 with the preamble missing, which resulted in
        a mis-match for the LicenseInFile field of the spec, one would
        probably conclude the license to be GPLv2 in the
        ConcludedLicense field in the spec.
      - some worry that to make an affirmative statement it can be
        omitted might cause concern in the community or implicate a
        "judgment" where one is not meant to be made
  - FSF address under copyright notice - FSF has moved, shouldn't matter
    which address for license matching purposes; is this part of the
    copyright notice (and therefore, already covered under Guideline \#
    ) or should this be marked as "replaceable" text?

FYI:

  - License List v1.19 to be released on Friday , Sept 6

## Action Items

1.  Jilayne/Phil to reach to Eben to enquire about Preamble and first
    sentence in regards to license matching
2.  Jilayne to send a description for LinuxCon discussion to Jack to
    post on schedule; sent email to Legal team
3.  other team leaders: also spread the word re: LinuxCon discussion
4.  ALL: review other comments and questions in Google doc templates and
    comment there, so we can resolve various issues by next week (9/5)
5.  ALL: review draft guideline and submit comments via email list - to
    finalize at next meeting on 9/12
6.  ALL: see email re: Ruby license and comment via email list

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
