# SPDX Outreach Team meeting - 20 January 2022

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* Dick Brooks
* Joe Bussell
* Joshua Marpet
* Kate Stewart
* Sebastian Crane
* Vicky Brasseur

## Agenda

* Minutes approval
* SBOM Landscape
* Ambassadors programmme (Vicky)
* Podcast (Joshua)
* Topics for 2022 meetings (incl. Steve's suggestion from General Meeting)
* Community News - Collecting mentions of SPDX in blogs, articles, press
* Member recruitment
* FAQ about SPDX
* AOB

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 16th of December approved**

### SBOM Landscape

* Jordini helping with debugging. Checks failing.
* Instructions on how to commit in.
* Filters to line up with tooling taxonomy - <https://ntia.gov/files/ntia/publications/ntia_sbom_tooling_taxonomy-2021mar30.pdf>

### Ambassadors

* Vicky will post to the mailing list, when she has something to share.

### Podcast

* Sent message asking for dates/times to coordinates.
* Breaking into 2 sessions for Japanese one.
* Looking for 2 times via a doodle poll for holding the podcast
* Distribution - Libsyn & Youtube channel set up

### Improving mentions

* Dick to write an article about SPDX usage.

### Membership recruitment

* Join button has been added.
* Website improvement - handling plugins - license list, public static web site, get Steve's input.
* Website - [LFX security project](https://lfx.linuxfoundation.org/tools/security). AI: Kate to take action to figure out where

### FAQ (Bob)

* What is in 3.0? (Bob) Possibly a start for rewriting 2019 article?
* How do you get started generating an SPDX document? (Dick)

### Article on 3.0

* Is Nisha still interested? Sebastian to send email in a couple weeks. Possibly Bob's draft.

### Status update on 3.0 process

* Would it be possible to do a quarterly blog? Show by example. Call to action, etc.
* Core profile update - William? Milestone parts. General & SPDX tech list & general list.
* Bob - some record of where we are would be good.
* Digest to help people keep up with over time.
* Monthly updates not detailed enough, ie. pre-release notes, forecast, etc.
* List of things accomplished and on the agenda.

### Community News Section

* White House Open Source Security Summit on 1/13 - SBOMs mentioned a lot.
* [Chainguard post](https://blog.chainguard.dev/what-an-sbom-can-do-for-you/) (was briefly on front page of Hacker News)
* [New Stack post](https://thenewstack.io/improving-open-source-supply-chain-transparency-with-spdx/)
