# SPDX Outreach Team meeting - 17 March, 2022

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Joshua Marpet
* Kate Stewart
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Winslow

## Regrets

* Vicky Brasseur

## Agenda

* Minutes Approval
* License List FAQ
* License List section on the SPDX Wikipedia page
* Membership
* GSoC Update
* Website updates needed
* Podcast status
* AOB

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 17th of February approved**

* Approved minutes could not be uploaded due to GitHub outage. Sebastian will bring this up next meeting.

* Introductions from Steve and Jilayne. Are Legal Team leads, but can't often participate in the Outreach Team calls.

* Joshua explains current US Government use of SBOMs.

### License List FAQ

* Jilayne: There's an FAQ on the SPDX main website which is very out of date. There was an effort last year to update it but that stalled. Contacted the Steering Committee to see if it can be moved to the License List GitHub repository to be maintained, and that is moving forward.

* Steve: moving it to the `docs/` directory in the License List repository.

* Steve is interested in longer-term use of the SPDX main website. Fully generated from GitHub, or just a landing page to lead to more specific pages for each team?

### Wikipedia updates

* Jilayne and Sebastian to work on License List text to update.

### Membership

* Joshua volunteers for helping Kate chase up organisations for formal membership. Thanks to Joshua!

* Decision not to remove logos of existing organisations that are in the process of becoming members but haven't finished yet.

### Website updates

* Kate and Bob have been a dialogue about adding 3.0 information to the 'participate' page.

* Jack Manbeck will be adding FOSSLight to the 'Open Source Tools' page.

### Podcast

* Joshua: still need to organise time for recording podcast. Trying not to upset, but need to have more initiative to make it work.

* Kate: Linux Foundation is starting up a podcasting division,  AI: Kate to introduce Joshua to Mark.
