# SPDX Outreach Team meeting - 17 February, 2022

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* Joshua Marpet
* Kate Stewart
* Sebastian Crane
* Vicky Brasseur

## Agenda

* Minutes approval
* Podcast
* Promoting SPDX-related talks
* FAQ
* Sign-up for members on website
* REUSE (Max?)
* AOB

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 20th of January approved**

### Podcast

* Joshua sent out invitations to the SPDX Asia Team. Is cooperating with a local podcasting group.
* Need to nail down regular date and times
* Monday & Friday are the best bet for Sebastian; around 10am Eastern will be good for him (Mondays)
* Joshua will coordinate

### Membership signup page

* The 'join' button is active on the site
* Kate has added logos for the organisations that have already joined
* Do send folks to sign up! (must be LF members)

### REUSE

* SC invited Max to join the call
* SC thinking of writing a blog post about new REUSE version; get quotes from Max

### FAQ

* Wrote stuff for this but it's not on the website?
    * <https://github.com/seabass-labrax/spdx-license-list-faqs> (converted to Markdown)

* Can work with Jack to get it onto the site
    * Let Legal have another look so they aren't surprised that changes happen

### Website:
- Any updates pending? Up to date.

### Landscape:
- README is updated,  AI: Kate to review/fix
- Reach out to FOSSlight - GitHub issue? Slack?

### Kate's update on DocFest:
* Identified and worked through six issues during the DocFest
* 24 participants
* Rose Judge led the meeting
* Being able to link to vulnerability and attestation information; should be going into SPDX 2.3
* Being able to indicate what purpose a package is for (eg. Container image)

### SPDX contributor onboarding
* Joshua volunteering Melissa to monitor emails, if we can come up with canned response.
* Sebastian monitors [Gitter](https://gitter.im/spdx-org/Lobby)
* Kate to help provide list projects to point people at where is needing help.
* GitHub project board? <https://github.com/orgs/todogroup/projects/1?card_filter_query=type%3Aissue>
* Some preliminary areas where we know we need help (to revisit each month) until we can get something more sophisticated set up:
    * Python Library
    * Go Library
    * kubernetes BOM tool
    * FSFE REUSE - better generation of package level
    * binutils - compiler/linking - generate SPDX doc during build (like Zephyr dashboard)
    * llvm - generate SPDX BOM during build
    * packaging systems - incorporating SPDX SBOM generation during builds, different languages, etc.

### SPDX-related talks:
* FOSDEM Software Composition Analysis Devroom: <https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/track/software_composition_and_dependency_management/>
* FOSDEM Security track talk: <https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/event/security_sbom/>
* Oman Open Source CoE conference this week: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CPjdHAMQLOE> (VMB w/intro to supply chain security & mentions of SPDX starting at 1:10:00)

### Community News:
* <https://zephyr-dashboard.renode.io/> has source & built SPDX SBOMs enabled on builds
* JFrog webinar on SBOMs includes ability to join SPDX now (tag:value, spreadsheet, JSON)
* GitBOM efforts:  working to include in SPDX external reference
* Cost of vulnerability remediation
* Kate speaking at [OpenChain Security Summit](https://www.openchainproject.org/featured/2022/02/10/security-summit-2022)
* Bob speaking at [CISQ](https://www.brighttalk.com/webcast/12231/531015)
* Sebastian had talk accepted for LibrePlanet - advanced package managers
