# SPDX Outreach Team meeting - 16 June, 2022

## Attendees

* Joshua Marpet
* Kate Stewart
* Sebastian Crane
* Vicky Brasseur

## Agenda

* Minutes approval
* Kate's update on RSA presentation
* Joshua's news
* Alexios introduction
* Getting started guide (Vicky)

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 19th of May approved**

### Kate's update on RSA presentation

* Presentation had wide coverage
  * [Linux Foundation blog: SBOM – SB Doesn't Stand for Silver Bullet](https://linuxfoundation.org/blog/sbom-sb-doesnt-stand-for-silver-bullet/)
  * [CSO Online: Software supply chain security fixes gain prominence at RSA](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3663490/software-supply-chain-security-fixes-gain-prominence-at-rsa.html)

* There were about 80 attendees, about a quarter/third of attendance in person compared to previous conferences. Kate was also on a panel for DevSecOps; made a point of reminding viewers about open source software. Software is the only safety-critial sector which isn't regulated.

* Recordings will be available.

* [Slides are available online.](https://static.rainfocus.com/rsac/us22/sess/1626997428260001GQDO/finalwebsite/2022_USA22_DSO-M03_01_Tooling-up-Getting-SBOMs-to-Scale_1654301833390001t8kN.pdf)


### Other SPDX in the news

* Steve Winslow presented 'Next Steps for Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) Generation in Zephyr' at the Zephyr Developer Summit.

* [DaggerBoard](https://github.com/nyph-infosec/daggerboard), a 'vulnerability scanner tool' was released as open source last night (still has that new project glow!). SPDX is a supported input format.

* Articles and blog posts:

    * [Reproducible Builds: New SPDX team to incorporate build metadata in Software Bill of Materials](https://reproducible-builds.org/reports/2022-05/#new-spdx-team-to-incorporate-build-metadata-in-software-bill-of-materials)
    * [Google Security Blog: SBOM in Action: finding vulnerabilities with a Software Bill of Materials](https://security.googleblog.com/2022/06/sbom-in-action-finding-vulnerabilities.html)

### Joshua's news

* Joshua: Founder of Security Weekly podcast has left and started working for Eclipsium (firmware security company). Joshua asked them to join SPDX & they're well inclined.

### New members

* Kate is pulling together a deck for onboarding new SPDX member companies. Is looking for feedback; adding Joshua & VMB.

* Lots of new member logos to add to the SPDX website! Includes ARM, Rezilion, Shebash and HPE. ARM in particular is moving all their SBOMs to generated SPDX.

### 2.3 release

* Very close to release tagging (next week or two). Will publicise the release.

* VMB asked that the Tech Team keep the Outreach Team in the loop.

### Getting started guide

* May be hard to get started; we need an approachable way for new folks 'to dip their toe in the water'.

* Agreed to at least start with GitHub issues, marking them as 'help-wanted' as appropriate.

* William Bartholomew is working on a new layout for the specification, with sections for use-cases etc. [Available on William's GitHub account](https://iamwillbar.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.2.2/); will be moving it to SPDX GitHub organisation soon.

### Potential new IETF working group

* New IETF WG for linking various SBOMs together regardless of format.

* Kate will be talking to them soon.

### New meeting time

* Considering shorter, more frequent meetings with more of a focus on actionable items. Ties-in with SPDX website rebuild. General agreement on this; Sebastian will set up a poll.

### Topics for future meetings

* SPDX event at BSides conference
