# SPDX Outreach Team meeting - 21 April, 2022

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* Joshua Marpet
* Sebastian Crane
* Vicky Brasseur

## Agenda

* Minutes approval
* Podcast
* Website
* AOB

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 17th of March approved**

### Podcast

* Joshua has the resources to do this now; OBS Studio & Riverside all working. Would like to start scheduling to get momentum before important personal matters. Joshua is talking to the SPDX Asia Team about getting scheduled.

* Discussion about publishing workflow: libsyn can post/tweet automatically; RSS feed can be integrated into the website. Joshua is looking to set it up so he's not a bottleneck, and any of us can host.

### Conferences and other podcasts

* Joshua would like to get up interviewed on other high-volume podcasts (Security Weekly, for instance). Sebastian suggested Dick Brooks as an interviewee; Joshua shared guest nomination page for a podcast network.

* Joshua asks do we want to have an SPDX track at a conference? B-Sides Global is an option. General agreement among those present that this is a good idea! Discussion about coordinating talks with a SPDX Docfest. Bob expressed reluctance to do this before SPDX 3.0 lands (sometime this summer).

### Website

* Sebastian gave updates about the SPDX website rebuild: first draft should be bringing auto-generated stuff into a cohesive whole, such as License List, Landscape, spec etc. Will also move back to `spdx.org` domain. Will be a statically generated site in GitHub; can be collaboratively developed then published when done. This also means we'll be free of WordPress & can update it all ourselves via PRs.

* Bob asked what will be missing if we launch with only those things? Sebastian: not much; for instance the tools page can be replaced by the Landscape data, FAQ for the License List has already moved to GitHub, so only News & Announcements, About, and Governance will need to be recreated. Vicky suggests a 'lift/shift' to GitHub then iterate.

* Vicky asked about the timeline for the project. Sebastian: not defined yet, mostly ASAP.

* Discussion about the repository organisation for this; would have two separate repositories for content and the site generator. The separate repo would also contain binaries like pictures, making it faster to clone. Vicky expressed concerns at the awkwardness of cloning two repositories to make a post. Sebastian will consider a single repository; nothing in stone yet.

* Agreed to start with issues/projects on GitHub and can assign individual tasks out.

* Discussion about access control for repository; Vicky suggests having an Outreach Team on the SPDX GitHub org.

## Action points

* Vicky: email the community asking them to propose for All Things Open, at the very least
* Sebastian: ask Steve Winslow to set up GitHub repository for website
