## Attendees

  - Bill Schineller
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Peter Williams
  - Kate Stewart
  - Kirsten Newcomer

## Notes

Three items were discussed during the meeting:

  - Bugzilla ID 644 - cardinality of Package Overview Info is missing
  - Bugzilla ID 592 - License repo
  - Time for next week’s call

Bugzilla ID [644](http://bugs.linux-foundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=644):

We discussed the implications of nesting in RDF/XML and the impact of
any changes to the spec.

During the discussion, it was decided that a diagram representing the
domain model would be helpful in resolving this and other issues.

Kate agree to draw up diagram(s) representing the domain model.

Bugzilla ID [592](http://bugs.linux-foundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=592):

We discussed the processes for setting up the license repository. It was
proposed that we use the license spreadsheet to produce RDFA/HTML pages
which would populate the repository.

(Note - since the meeting Peter has proposed a modification to the
process to retain the formatting of the license text)

Peter agreed to produce an example RDFA/HTML document.

Gary agreed to write a tool which would translate the spreadsheet into
the RDFA/HTML documents.

## Next week’s call:

Gary will be calling from Hawaii - we agreed to move the call to 1:00
Eastern time to accommodate the time zone differences.

Summary of Actions:

Kate to draw up diagrams representing the domain model

Peter to draft an RDFA template/document for the license

Gary to write a tool to translate from the spreadsheet to RDFA

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
