## Attendees

  - Bill Schineller
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Peter Williams
  - Kate Stewart

## Summary of follow-up items from the call

  - License section - consider renaming non-standard licenses to
    embedded licenses - has implications on the short form names. Todo:
    Kate to follow-up on the proposal.
  - Document and review the algorithm for creating the xor'd sha1's from
    the file list
  - Change the description in the source information field in the
    package section
  - Discuss/decide if the package level asserted license should be
    optional or mandatory
  - Rename "asserted license" to "asserted licensing"
  - Future topic- should there be additional optional fields for
    non-standard licenses?
  - Add a comment for the reviewer in the review section
  - Reconcile the tag names with the SPDX overview
  - consider a more consistent naming convention

## Minute details

Review spdx overview slides sent by Kate - purpose to align on the
current status of the spec:

  - Section Headers in the spec - Reviewer information has been moved to
    a separate section at the end
  - License section - consider renaming non-standard licenses to
    embedded licenses - has implications on the short form names. Todo:
    Kate to follow-up on the proposal. Note that embedded is somewhat
    ambiguous - used for "embedded in the package" as opposed to
    "embedded in the SPDX file"
  - Identification section - Version of SPDX - does it make sense in the
    RDF spec? Topic for future discussion.
  - Identification section - Method of xor for all file sha's to
    generate overall checksum - need to publish and review the specific
    algorithm. The package file sha is optional in case the spdx file is
    embedded

<!-- end list -->

  - Source information - change description to reflect additional
    information on the source rather than anomalies (e.g. the download
    URL is no longer available)
  - Package level - agree to add asserted license. Asserted may include
    logic (and/or disjunctive/etc)
      - Seen licenses would just be a list
      - Not clear if asserted license at the package level should be
        mandatory or optional - future discussion
  - Copyright - just a string for release 1 of SPDX
  - Should there be additional optional tags in the non-standard
    license? Topic for a future proposal.
  - File - Asserted License → Asserted Licensing (takes care of
    possibility of multiple licenses)
  - File - Seen license - can be multiple licenses
  - Cardinality - does it make sense to have a mandatory field that may
    contain 0 items - yes since it confirms that "none were found"
  - Reviews - should there be a comment for the reviewer? Yes - add this
    as an optional field.

Todo: reconcile the tag names with the spdx overview

Need a better naming convention - add to topic for next week's call -
suggestion to invite the individual providing the feedback to the call.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
