## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart
  - Peter Williams
  - Bill Schineller
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Phil Odence
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Mark Gisi
  - Marshall Clow
  - Matt Germon
  - Michael Herzog
  - Scott Peterson
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Philip Koltun
  - Steve Cropper
  - Kim Weins
  - Martin Michlmayr
  - Guillaume Rousseau

## Agenda

  - Review spec
  - Tools overview
  - Licensing model
  - Remainder of the bugs
  - Version 2.0 considerations

We reviewed the Specification as a group in order to close on issues and
get agreement for the beta/release candidate version of the
Specification.

There was a lot of lively and effective discussion.

A number of updates were made to the Specification during the meeting.

Below are the conclusions made during discussion, along with some issues
identified for exploration after beta.

Again, please review and send additions/corrections as needed

## Conclusions

  - Specification number will be set to version 0.8
  - Purpose text:
      - major versions incremented when incompatible changes are made.
      - minor field will be incremented when backward compatible changes
        are made.
      - Concern about the example where sections cause major version
        revisions. We’ll leave the example for now.
  - Section 2 will be split into two parts and the following sections
    will be re-numbered
  - Section 2 title: SPDX Document
      - sub-section 2.1 SPDX Specification Version Number
  - New Section 3 title: Creation Information
      - sub-sections include remaining fields from original Section 2,
        as modified during meeting
      - Creator: changed format to be future reference to format and
        define it to be just a string for version 1
      - Created: updated the definition to be the last update when the
        analysis was done
  - **NOTE:** Following comments refer to section numbers in place
    during the meeting
  - Add all the rdf properties to the SPDX Document to map the package
    and analysis
  - Add a checksum class to the Specification (referred to in File
    section)
  - Review for terminology consistency
      - license vs. licensing
      - Undetermined vs. Unknown: used to indicate that data was
        reviewed, but conclusion is not clear
      - Not Analyzed will be used to indicate that data was not looked
        for
      - None: data was looked for but none found
  - Package-level and File-level licensing fields:
      - Proposed licensing model that enables representation of
        disjunctive / conjunctive licensing is adopted. This means
        license cardinality can be 1.
          - Affected sections will be updated, including
          - 5.4.1
          - 5.5
  - Some Purpose/Intent text in the related sections needs to be
    reviewed with legal. Specifically:
      - 3.8.1: "all should be recited"
      - 3.10: text refers to both author and copyright, but field
        descriptions are specific to copyright. Intent/Purpose text and
        fields need to be in agreement
      - 4.1 wording in Intent -- exact words were highlighted in spec
        during discussion
  - Cardinality for Copyright will remain 1 for beta, but will be more
    than one after beta
  - Section 5.2.6:
      - Need to add definitions for listed types
      - For future version of Specification, consider mime types.
  - Section 5.6: Need this same field at the package level
  - Fix "SDPX" typo in footer
  - Review section (is this Review or Reviewer?)
      - Copy Creator Data format information to Reviewer section
      - Review Comment field: Needs intent text from Rockett
  - Appendix I will simply link to SPDX License repository
  - Graphical version of model will be added to the Specification
    (appendix?)

## Action Items

  - Kate will complete first round of edits to Specification
  - Gary will make additional edits to the Specification to add RDF/XML
    examples and update the tools and example spreadsheet
  - Kate will get input on wording changes from legal where appropriate
  - Technical team will do a final review; date TBD

## Open Issues

  - Concerns were raised about the verification mechanism (SHA1) not
    including the relative filename
  - Will the OWL document be added to the Specification?
  - Proposed that version two provide support for more hierarchical use
    cases (package in a package for example)
  - Concern about the created date being overly specified for the RDF
    format

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
