## Attendees

  - Bill Schineller
  - Kate Stewart
  - Nicholas Loke
  - Steve Crawford
  - Peter Williams
  - Gary O’Neall

## Agenda

  - Review current spec published 6/6/2011

## Review

  - Language updated from the legal team
  - Request review from Kirsten for the legal language
  - Still some review comments in the Legal team, so there may be some
    additional changes
  - Request for technical team to review and send Kate a document
    version under change revision mode to highlight any review comments
    or changes
  - Request for a spreadsheet example including the URI for artifactOf –
    Gary
  - Appendix II. RDF Data Model Implementation – needs a review to make
    sure it is in sync with the latest spec (especially naming)
  - hasFile property on the document – hasFile is a property of package.
    Having a property at the document level is OK, but we would like to
    add such a property in the future. Concern about the name “hasFile”
    at the document level. Agreed to “referencesFile”.
  - Discussion on having a property from the file to the document –
    agreed to postpone any changes until there is a use case which
    benefits from this relationship
  - artifactOf – need for more information to describe how it is used.
    Produce some examples.
  - Need to produce instructions on how to use the spec.
  - PackageVerificationCode excluded file, need to review/update the
    cardinality – 0 or more – some question/concern on the language used
    to describe the cardinality (0 or more mandatory or optional)
  - PackageVerificationCode excluded file – review syntax in the main
    document
  - Conjunctinve/Disjunctive licenses – should the cardinality be 2 or
    more – tradeoff of additional effort for tooling to interpret manage
    degenerative case. Agree to 2 or more as the cardinality.
  - SimpleLicenseInfo discussion – Should we have SimpleLicenseInfo a
    straight subclass of AnyLicenseInfo? Would be more constraining, but
    would also match the conceptual model – proposed for next week’s
    agenda
  - Proposal for embedded octect stream – proposed for next week’s
    agenda

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
