## Attendees

  - Nicholas Loke
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Peter Williams
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kate Stewart

## Agenda

  - Plan for what remains
  - Review spec – create a list of what’s missing
  - Go through all remaining items

## Review Spec

  - Discussion on document format. Agreed to add RDF XML examples to the
    sections and move the tag/value example under the tag/value
  - The RDF and tag/value information will be separated out into
    different appendices.
  - Peter will produce a new set of RDF documentation. It will be
    included in the PDF document and the HTML will be posted to
    spdx.org/rdf/terms. The documentation will be based on an OWL. This
    will be provided by Sunday.
  - Gary will generate examples for the RDF XML from the tools. This
    will be done within 2 weeks.
  - Section 3 – concern about having structure to the strings, for the
    RDF. Data format for beta will be simple strings. The tag/value
    should have a structure. The RDF format for after beta TBD.
  - Date Format – should we specify the date format? Agreed to leave the
    spec as is (was highly discussed a year ago and the current format
    was the resolution).
  - Should creator comments and reviewer comments be rdfs:comment? TBD
    (Peter – can you include a proposal when you document the RDF)
  - Discussion on the RDF specific subsections – will make consistent
    once we add the documentation from Peter
  - SourceInfo 4.6.6 should be changed to multi-line
  - LicenseInfo fields – add the new syntax for license sets and
    mandatory 1
  - Review of license terminology – will handle on the list (I’m not
    sure I completely captured this item)
  - Section 5 Identifier Assigned → Identifier
  - Section 5.2 is currently 4.1 – renumber/format issue
  - Review free form text fields (e.g. 5.1.13) for consistency for
    \<text\> … \</text\>. Would prefer the subsection for data format to
    be just free form text and the tag example to include the \<text\> …
    \</text\>
  - Possibly add a sentence or two in section 6, add the description for
    what happens if there is no archive file name for the package (use
    the package name).
  - 6.3.5 lowercase c in checksum
  - ArtifactOf structure does not match well to the RDF format – Peter
    to propose a solution
  - Reviewer – name string format – same issue with parsing strings in
    the RDF
  - Inconsistent use of unspecified and unknown licenses – proposal to
    treat these as standard licenses and include them in Appendix I (and
    on the spdx.org/licenses website).
  - Diagram – Analyzed file – is it a property of SPDX Doc or a just a
    property of the package? Agreed to add a property at the SPDXDoc
    level for all file and OtherLicensing info. This will allow for an
    easy extraction of all file information within an SPDX doc and easy
    extraction of all OtherLicensing info within a doc.

Plan: Peter will provide the RDF information by Thursday. We will review
on Friday. This will allow implementation to begin over the weekend.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
