## Attendees

  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Branden Robinson
  - Peter Williams
  - Kate Stewart
  - Steve Cropper
  - Jack Manbeck

## Agenda

  - Discuss proposal from Steve Cropper for Supplier related fields
  - Review open bugs

## Supplier fields

The team had a good discussion about the new proposed Supplier fields,
including discussion of:

  - Optional vs. Mandatory
  - Reasons for including in GA of 1.0 rather than waiting
  - Overlap with need for handling package hierarchies
  - Affect on tools
      - suggested that tools could be udpated after GA date
  - Use cases, including
      - open source package maintained by loose coalition where no
        individual has clear ownership
      - open source package where original copyright owner has died
      - package shared between supply chain partners
      - Discussed providing special options as we do for certain other
        fields such as NOASSERTION, NONE, and possibly ORPHANED

## Spec update

  - waiting for trademark info from Rockett
  - waiting for input from Karen C. on confidentiality

## Bug review

We ran out of time to review the bug list, but ask that everyone

  - review for any open P1s assigned to them
  - review closed bugs to be sure we're in agreement

Corrections, additions welcome.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
