## Attendees

  - Bill Schineller
  - Branden Robinson
  - Peter Williams
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Kate Stewart
  - Nicholaas Loke
  - Marshall

## Agenda

  - Package Version
  - Review open bugs

## Package Version

  - Proposal – cardinality 1, String format
  - Already in ontology and tool – only difference is the property name.
    Peter will reply to Kate’s email with the proposed property name.
    Kate will update the spec document. The RDF ontology and tools have
    already been updated.

## Review open bugs

  - New bug – license text is not rendering correctly in IE
  - All other defects were updated in Bugzilla – see Bugzilla comments
    and status for details (Note – some of the defect updates are not
    captured in the minutes)
  - 728 – Assigned to Kirsten
  - Need to add Kirsten to Bugzilla (Bill will follow-up)
  - 838 – Assigned to Peter
  - 729 – Some examples still need to be posted. Kate will post the
    examples and notify the web team so it can be placed properly in the
    new web design. Consider adding to spdx.org/tools
  - 726 – Git repository name updated – need to update the tools
    documentation and spdx.org/tools text – assigned to Gary
  - ??? - RDF/Tag-Value mapping – discussion as to if this is fully
    resolved. Agreed to close the defect and enter any specific issues
    if they occur.
  - 638 - Conformance section – Discussed the need since the spec
    already defines cardinality etc. Kate will propose – see defect for
    details on the discussion
  - 646 – closed
  - 673 – closed
  - 715 – assign to Kate
  - 737 – closed
  - 738 – Assigned to Peter
  - 811 – Assign to Rockett, P3
  - 818 – Set target milestone to V2 – did not come up as a blocker in
    the beta feedback discussion
  - Need to add a “Version 2” to target milestone in Bugzilla
  - 835 – Assigned to Peter
  - 837 – Assigned to Peter
  - 839 – Kate will review wording

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
