## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Bill Schineller
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Peter Williams
  - Marshall Clow
  - Branden Robinson
  - Steve Cropper

## Agenda

  - Report on General team meeting
  - Beta readiness and ArtifactOf URI proposal
  - Specification and Technical web page review/cleanup

## Report on General team meeting -- Kate

  - Various edit passes completed on Spec
  - Waiting for feedback from additional members of legal team
  - Kate will continue to consolidate edits and requests that edits be
    saved either in Open Office or .doc format for Word (Word '97-2004)
    to ensure edits are not lost
  - OSI is going to adopt same short form names as SPDX

## Beta readiness

  - Tools -- Gary
      - tools are ready except for one item (see below)
      - would like some volunteers to test
      - need closure on ArtifactOf URI proposal
          - CONCLUDED:
          - If there is a known location for a doap:Project document on
            the web, RDF will use this as the resource URI (i.e. a named
            node); this will be the value for ArtifactOf URI in the
            tag/value format
          - If there is no known location for a DOAP document on the
            web, RDF may represent as an anonymous node; in the
            tag/value format, ArtifactOfURI will have the value
            ‘UNKNOWN’
          - RDF may generate a URI named node for the doap:Project even
            if document is not on the web, so that single node may be
            referenced in the RDF graph.
          - If translating from tag/value format to RDF format,
            translator may choose to generate a single URI any
            referenced doap:Project having name and homepage pair are
            the same
          - Comments: this would make the RDF graph neater, but adds
            work to translator
  - Technical Doc -- Kirsten
      - Technical training PPT needs updating due to some terminology
        change
      - Kirsten to send suggested updates to Kim
  - There was also some general discussion about having a way to inline
    contents of a package. Topic was raised by Brandon Robinson.
      - Brandon stated that this has been raised by some of their supply
        chain
      - Kate mentioned that there are technical issues with embedding
        pkg contents
      - Group agreed that this is not required (or even requested) for
        beta

## Web page review and cleanup -- all

  - SPDX Whitepaper referenced on both the Home page and the
    Specification page needs updating.
      - Owners: Phil Odence and Kim Weins.
      - Kate will provide a technical review after update.
  - <http://spdx.org/licenses/>
      - Title needs to be changed to "SPDX License List"
      - Text needs to be modified to read: "This following is a list of
        all liceneses currently registered with SPDX as of \<date\>."
      - Owners: Martin M. and Gary (?)
  - <http://spdx.org/rdf/terms>
      - Contents are up to date
  - <http://spdx.org/spec/guidelines>
      - Currently empty. Assumption is that this will be populated
        during beta.
      - Owner: Kim Weins (?)
  - <http://spdx.org/spec/examples>
      - There was some discussion about the best way to organize the
        information on this page. No final conclusions reached.
        Proposals included
          - Provide a separate page for each type of example
          - Keep current examples all on one page (fewer clicks)
          - Provide an archive folder for older examples
          - Currently, older examples are hidden
      - Requested that the sub-team reviewing SPDX website organization
        create a working group page for itself to make it easier for
        others to follow progress and provide feedback
      - Owner: Kirsten

As always, please send additions or corrections.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
