## Attendees

  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Bill Schineller
  - Peter Williams
  - Kate Stewart
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Ann Thorton

## Review Peter’s UML diagram

We're in the process of reviewing 2 different conceptual models with the
goal of finalizing on one model for beta.

On 2/22, the team reviewed a model proposed by Kate

At this meeting, the team reviewed a model proposed by Peter.

Discussion included: relationships between objects, what abstract
classes are necessary, model for licenses. Peter made some real-time
modifications to his model during the discussion to address points
raised.

There was some discussion of whether we should allow for names to change
after beta, given that the spec will be versioned. I don't believe
agreement on this was reached.

## Actions resulting from the discussion

  - (Peter) will send his model to the team, as well as the name of the
    tool he used to create the model, so that team member can make
    proposed changes to the model and share them for review. Goal is to
    finalize the model this week. (Attached to the minutes)
  - Team agreed that we need to finalize names of properties this week
    as well to better support tool implementation for beta. The team all
    agreed that the singular form of the name is preferred to plural.
    (Kate) will work with Rockett to get the definitive list of names
    from the legal team.
  - (Bill) will put out a call to the SPDX mailing list for use cases
    the team can use to validate the model.
  - (Ann) agreed to collate and document the use cases on the twiki.
    (Kate) will work with Ann to bring her up to speed on previous use
    cases discussed. Bill will send a pointer to the twiki location for
    use cases.
  - (Peter) signed up to provide training on the spec for the beta as
    soon as the spec is nailed down. The use cases collected by Ann will
    be useful input for this training.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
