# SPDX Joint Legal / Tech Team Minutes, September 29, 2020

## Attending
* Steve Winslow
* Kate Stewart
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Gary ONeall
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Peter Shin
* Matija Suklje
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* Willilam Bartholomew
* Jim Hutchinson

## Agenda
- Joint Legal Call - LIcensing Profile
- discuss draft 3.0 licensing profile document at https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k_2tSlFXvW_SbW-I1DcSEoCNBMQJd4FEFIQr6KCJuyU/edit#


## Minutes
* Future Zoom calls may require a Passcode - Kate will follow up to see if we can add the passcode to the existing meetings.  Watch your emails for any updates if we need to change the Zoom access
* Discussed whether to switch over to etherpad / https://github.com/spdx/meetings for minutes
* Legal Profile:   Fields for Artifact class:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k_2tSlFXvW_SbW-I1DcSEoCNBMQJd4FEFIQr6KCJuyU/edit#heading=h.bo14p8popi01 - see notes at: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/master/legal/2020-09-24.md for prior discussion
* Moving on to "Other Licensing" section in this call.
  * If you are doing a section, its mandatory to have certain fields.   How should this handle?
  * Namespace usage - concern over the identifiers - see issue #209.   People asking, format.
    * Next release of online tools implements this, so we need to get Philippe & Mark in same meeting and build agreement.
    * Compatability considerations.   Not as serious now that we're in 3.0.
    * William notes that Microsoft had some interest in this and I’m sure I could get an extra opinion from there if we need a third perspective.
    * Should LicenseRef be moved to SPDXRef?   Ids.   Anything referenceable in an SPDX document.   Name of the property itself.    Compatibility.
    * Matija in favor of keeping LicenseRef - as well.
    * Peter notes we might need the license expresssion syntax be able to have the document prefix?   Separate entity conceptually.
  * Model needs to be updated.
  * We don't document the field for the specified licenses.    Need to consider to unify this.
    * Steve agrees on this.   Full call on this topic?   Postpone ExtractedText/LicenseText until we solidify the model discussion.

Open question: Should we specify the Listed License fields in the SPDX spec itself? https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/development/v2.2.1/model/SPDX-UML-Class-Diagram.jpg
Options:
  1. specify it in the SPDX spec -- practical implications: include in the licensing profile, here or in a separate clause
  2. make a separate document to describe those fields
  3. leave as is, not specified

Discussed: should people be prohibited from creating LicenseRefs for listed licenses?
  * Gary: someone could create a LicenseRef for something that later becomes listed, shouldn't make it invalid
  * Several license matchers don't actually use the SPDX matching guidelines -- some tools would show it as a match. So someone may think it's safer to use a LicenseRef if the tools can't be sure it's an exact match. Makes it fuzzy to determine whether something is "on the license list" with the guidelines taken into account.

Next Steps - tag version on this document in google doc,  then move into markdown.

https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/tree/development/v3.0 -- clarify development versions vs. draft versions

Next Tuesday tech team call will be to review UML class model / diagram -- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/development/v2.2.1/model/SPDX-UML-Class-Diagram.jpg. Will be a tech team call, but legal team will be invited.

Next Thursday 10/8 legal team call will be joint call to discuss Steve and Jilayne's updates to profile
