# SPDX Joint Legal / Tech Team Minutes, October 8, 2020

## Attending
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* Vicky Brasseur
* John Horan
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Paul Madick
* Gary O'Neall
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

We will focus on a review of the in-process licensing profile draft for the 3.0 spec, and looking at which questions remain open. If we have time, after that we will turn back to looking at open license list requests that are tagged for 3.11.

## Minutes

### Licensing profile for 3.0

Link to working draft: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k_2tSlFXvW_SbW-I1DcSEoCNBMQJd4FEFIQr6KCJuyU/edit?ts=5f1b15bf

* JL: There are separate spec sections for file, snippets, etc
* This profile rather collapses those, so the profile can be applied to any of them - i.e., fields apply to any artifact (package, file, snippet.)does that cause confusion? Is it okay to have a field that only applies to one artifact type?
* File Notice field currently applies to file only
* SW: Note that "All Licenses Info from Files" is also specific to Packages only, not Artifacts
* Gary: Can have fields applying to just one artifact
* Steve: would be separate Clauses in the spec, for e.g. extensions to Artifact, extensions to Package, etc. Would need to express this in spec that field only applies to specific artifact (TBD exactly how)

* File Notice applies to file - Do we see any problem extending this to snippets?
* JL: probably ok, (not sure if necessary)
* Steve: could be (1) License Notice, for the text corresponding to the Declared License; and (2) Acknowledgement Notice (or something like that) for the acknowledgments, rather than the license notice text itself
* JL: For license list licenses, we code the standard header in the XML; could put the standard header here if you want, but would be redundant.
  * SPDX in Linux kernel -- hundreds of different ways to say "this file is under GPL"; this field could be used to represent those. Is this needed? useful? Could stil put this in License Comments (to explain Concluded License)
  * SW: recalling comment from Mark Atwood on last call that it's helpful to have some place to put this info for iinstances where info it just being captured (and then send to lawyers)

* Gary: we're using "Notice" for a couple diferent purposes:
  1. License header (in Apache terms)
  2. "Notice" - attribution text, in NOTICE file
* Gary: Maybe limit "notice" to just Files.
  * Also, being able to put in LicenseRef-'s was originally to capture this sort of thing

* Jilayne, Vicky: Consider changing to e.g. "License Header" if that's really what it is
  * Jilayne: Perhaps, be silent on whether or not to include copyright statements
  * Gary: Also to be clarified: When would you use a file notice, and when would you use a LicenseRef- inside a file?
* Paul: Intent of this field says that there's something in the file that is helpful in determining the concluded license.

* Attribution text isn't describing anything about the software, but rather about the license
* This is a deviation from everything else in the SPDX spec which is about the software (not the license), but this is one step removed - about the license (of the software)
* was this considered to begin with? should it have even been added to the spec in the first place? Is it out of scope of the spec? (could be a slippery slope - other things, that can be used (with SPDX) that address license requirements specifically
* Steve: agreed that this seems like it's about describing a condition of the license, not describing a fact about the software
* Jilayne: Does adding this point towards there should also be fields for all other compliance requirements?
* Gary: Two cases here: what's written here is just about the license, not the software. But shouldn't be in the SPDX document. Should just refer to that once in the license, and then refer to that.
* Gary: But there is another use case: Apache-2.0 -- not the standard license header, but the NOTICE file itself as per section 4(d) of the license

* Jilayne: Should these two fields be combined? Simpler, not taking things away
* Steve: Lean towards separating these out. Would use the "attribution" field for e.g. NOTICE files; would not personally be using the License Header / File Notice field
* Gary: same
* Vicky: may need to ask more than just this group of attendees on this call
* Jilayne: perhaps we keep both, rewrite the descriptions to clarify / caveat them
  * Based on today's discussion, thinking that it can be used more broadly than the original intention of e.g. BSD-4-Clause, Apache-1.1 -- reframe to include Apache-2.0

* Action items / next steps:
  * Steve to take the pen on rewriting these two sections
  * Add "All License Info in Files" field -- to apply to packages only
  * After updating, will share the working doc (and also these minutes) out to the tech and legal teams for review / comment
  * Next call will be for license list only -- will make call then about whether or not to push back the next release date.
