# SPDX-legal call Jan 8, 2026

## Attendees
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Jim Vitrano
* Steve Winslow
* Ria

## Agenda
### 2026 goals:
* Update License Inclusion Guidelines:
  * Last meeting in December, Ria, Jim, and Jilayne started to work on potential updates to the License Inclusion Guidelines. Made some good progress in a Google doc
  * As for process: use Change Proposal for this
    *Jilayne to move Google doc to more easily shareable 
* List of common reasons for rejection
  * Steve has started a doc to list “common reasons for rejection” - idea being that we can then link to this doc to make it easier/faster to move through issues (instead of re-writing the same thing over and over)
  * Link to this doc from (new) license inclusion guidelines as well so it’s all tied together
  * This would (hopefully) make it more comfortable for anyone to reference that reason, put the standard comment in the issue
    * If not Steve or Jilayne - we would have to close issue/change label
    * If Steve or Jilayne, then we can just close it unilaterally
* Need to get more community involved - reach out to existing networks, experienced open source legal folks first
  * First focus on process updates and associated documentation so that it’s easier for new people to join
  * Then think about the messaging (not just an email blast) - blog post or ??
  * You are going to be doing this work either way (reviewing licenses) - you can do it with SPDX, or on your way and everyone repeats the same work
  * Ria mentioned Ocelot - compliance in a box for containers
* OSI collaboration - Steve and Jilayne met with McCoy and Deb to discuss better communication and collaboration. Discussed a few items: URLs, better communication when licenses are accepted (or not), OSI adopting SPDX license matching guidelines
  * Priority #1: Fix their URLs to be aligned to SPDX ids (that’s an OSI task)
  * Priority #2: better communication on when they approve a license and issue of getting an SPDX id for their URL
    * If they check if a license submitted to OSI is already on SPDX as part of their review, then that would help
    * If it is not and they accept a license, maybe ask OSI to then submit an issue (and we could make a specific template for that) to get it added to get an SPDX id
  * Generally: Steve and Jilayne to have regularly (monthly, bi-monthly) calls with OSI

### Follow-up actions:
GitHub permissions: Can some participants (besides Jilayne / Steve) be given access to change labels on issues, but not to e.g. close issues?
