# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2025-09-12

## Attendees
- [x] Alfred Strauch
- [x] Steven Carbno
- [x] Bob Martin (MITRE)
- [ ] Dishoungh White II
- [ ] Kate Stuart
- [ ] Victor Lu
- [x] Jim Vitrano
- [x] Amit Kumar
- [ ] Issac Asay
- [ ] Lucas Tate
- [ ] Apoorav Trehan
- [x] Alex Volykin
- [ ] Allan Friedman
- [ ] Greg Shue
- [ ] Riley Barello-Myers
- [ ] Henk Berkholz

## Agenda
* PR update - minor issues ProfileIdentifierType https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1103
* Greg wants SC discussed in relation to Zephyr build and reusable sources
* Discuss the need for Supply Chain inventory - definition of inventory
* Abstract product - product line to specific product specification

## Notes
* CISA announced continued support for CVE SBOMs
* Mitre will continue supporting the CVE - funding gap filled
* Bob discussed SSCA event
* Bob discussed various sources of new supply chain information and topics
* Supply chains will be impacted and changed
* How do you deflect attacks
* AI and supply chains - CSF will deal with AI
* Changes in oversight from government
* Atlas Framework - Mitre development
* Attack honeypots and evaluations
* AI is an attacker and target - AI is increasing the attack surface
* AI is software with any additional component
* Presented SPDX 3.1 in some details
* NIST working with semiconductor industry and risks related to supply chain = FAB evaluation
* Mechanics of the supply chain evidence NDIA
* UNTP discussed with DPP as a requirement for data and validation - supply chain
* Lockheed spoke of need for DTs
* Synoptics wants to tie metadata to physical chips
* Issues with name validation related to companies, distributors and product suppliers
* Counterfeiting is a significant issue

### Zephyr Discussion
* Has the deliverable been defined - what is the minimal functionality?
* Build process, executable process - source file options as part of configuration related to deliverables
* 2 deliverables build and configuration options
* Conformance baseline related to tool configuration
* PKO may be a solution -- support desired out

### Inventory Definition: Key Requirements
* Defining what? Anything
* Stock room quantities
* An audit - what and where, quality, review
* Related issues -- counterfeit
* What is the business problem?
* What is the product specification? Is the product part of a version? Product line?
* How do we count something without specification? Equivalents need to be tracked?
* If we have unique part # that change within the chain does this solve issues of product specification
  * Is a part within a larger product will impact the certified of a restricted product?
  * CRA will demand a version - different versions based on change?
  * Product equivalents based on manufacturers
  * HBOM compliance - used as inventory key management - used at point for purchase, transport and inclusion

## Action Items
* Work on defining inventory - Is this asset management?

## Decision Items
* (None recorded)
