# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2025-10-24

## Attendees
- [x] Alfred Strauch
- [x] Steven Carbno
- [ ] Bob Martin (MITRE)
- [ ] Dishoung White II
- [x] Kate Sewart
- [ ] Victor Lu
- [x] Jim Vitrano
- [ ] Amit Kumar
- [ ] Issac Asay
- [ ] Lucas Tate
- [ ] Apoorav Trehan 
- [ ] Alex Volykin
- [x] Allan Friedman
- [x] Greg Shue 
- [ ] Riley Barello-Myers
- [ ] Henk Berkholz
- [ ] Dan Hopkins

## Agenda 
* PR Update -- Full merge awaiting final approval - **merged**
  * `islocatedAt` --> `locatedAt` in RelationshipType #1136 -- Follows the pattern of invokedBy, modifiedBy, packagedBy, patchedBy, reportedBy, ..., omitting "is" prefix for brevity.
* License conformance related to SC
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1122
* Arthit Suriyawongkul summary of all 3.1 relationships - Review latest thoughts
  * https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1g9TophkZ2tWhTPMGGHqGOUurzZvOdkBtBJCvyBsa8kc/edit?gid=1850842743#gid=1850842743
* hasdistribution artifact - may need to be deprecated in the future (recommend it be declared obsolete in 3.2)
* Is software supported in the supply chain in 3.1?
* Requirementslinkage?
* Discuss CRA mapping ideas and the document developed by Greg
  * https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t-L2yt-zYLT3mtWC63Dy0PCl0G52NTJhsV_P26BV9oo/edit?tab=t.0 
* Submission of HW and SC for merge into dev main branch
* Misuse of product - What is misuse? HW, SW, and SC discussion

## Notes
* https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.1-dev/model/Hardware/Hardware/
* https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.1-dev/model/SupplyChain/SupplyChain/
* Discussed the idea of creating a group to create an example of how SPDX can be used to satisfy regulations such as CRA.
* Suggested it be under examples
* To be called compliance
* Kate Stewart will help organize the group Rob Kreg
* Demonstrate how SPDX data can be used to have regulatory conformance
* Building out information with CRA as proof of concept
* License issues related to elements - suggested implementation is in conflict with HW
* Policy engines use licenses therefore need base information
* 1 concluding license per agent per item may be useful 
* Can we use SC related to software build?
* Runtime issues need to be discussed
* hasdistribution artifact - may need to be deprecated in the future (recommend it be declared obsolete in 3.2)
* relationshipDataPointer 
* hasData or hasAnswer can be used to point to a specific graph item such as 
* hasPurpose 
* asset validation 
* extend annotation class (Kate) subject, you would need 2 subject in annotation
* needs to meet complex relationship needs
* tool developers need to be able to implement solutions using the relationshipDataPointer or revised annotation
* Functional Design issues need to considered as part of the issue
* conversation related to requirements, regulations and policy - commonalities and differences
* specification is a collection of requirements 
* need ontology to support these issues 
* discussion of needs vs requirements
* needs are none testable requirement
* capability can be written as a requirement

## Action Items
* Need to send out an email to SPDX members related to participation
* Build an example related to license and elements
* DrawIO for 3.1 is erroring **fixed**

## Decision Items
* Compliance example group to be formed
* Contact Rob Kreg to setup email list
* Start as a pull request Headed by Greg
