# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2025-02-28

## Attendees

- Steven Carbno
- Amit Kumar
- Alfred Strauch
- Bob Martin (MITRE)
- Isaac Asay
- Alex Volykin
- Nicole Pappler
- Kate Stewart

## Agenda

- Quick review of HBOM/SC Markdown
- Discuss candidate release related to 3.1 with HBOM and SC
- Review interest related to use and implementation of SBOM/SC
  - Microsoft and AMD have prototypes implementations
  - Feedback related to next steps
- Determine next stage for the HBOM/SC group
  - Provide an overview related to the action methodology in relation to SPDX

## Notes

https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/977

- Question: Is there a tool to generate HBOMs? Not at this time. Suggested the future would be to have hardware provide information so that a HBOM on hardware automatically.
- Location update: New location so that a headquarters can be created. Includes GPI standard be used.
- Location with string - should it be an enumeration? This is an option.
  - Headquarters will require multiple fields
  - Complicates SHACL implementation
- Hardware and FuSa will need safety fields
- Operations fields of interest
  - AM Event data for operations, functional safety, etc.
  - Data field can be used for different situations
  - Bulk product has been added - no SN
  - Change is a modification - supports addition of new fields
  - Modify process
  - Out of specification may be of interest to operations
  - Resolution action - relationship between classes
  - Test action - testing with relationships
    - No common result can be defined therefore no property result can be created
- Action classes
  - Assembly
  - Manufactures
- Boundary crossing with boundary definition
  - Can tie other actions to a boundary crossing
  - Physical location is focus of boundary
- Do we need a possession class - is determining possession satisfactory?
  - Who can answer this question? What is the normal process?
  - Makes SC more complex with limited gain?
- Non-physical vs physical code vs binary - hardware needs more information
- Destroy process, action
- Agent - owner identity complicates issue
- Harvesting action - existing products such as minerals
- performedby needs to be added for use by general (most) actions
  - Planned action - needs planned process class - what
- Add requirements to any procedure ISO standard for representation
  - Product specification is a subclass
- Reproduction - agricultural processes - organic processes
- Requirements - complex - review of all elements is needed
  - Required for HBOM implementation
  - Needed for validation
- Resolution - out of specification
- Storage has possession therefore deals with possession issue

## Decisions

*(No decisions recorded)*

## Action Items

*(No action items recorded)*
