# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2025-10-10

## Attendees
- [x] Alfred Strauch
- [x] Steven Carbno
- [x] Bob Martin (MITRE)
- [ ] Dishoung White II
- [ ] Kate Stuart
- [ ] Victor Lu
- [x] Jim Vitrano
- [ ] Amit Kumar
- [ ] Issac Asay
- [ ] Lucas Tate
- [ ] Apoorav Trehan
- [x] Alex Volykin
- [x] Allan Friedman
- [x] Greg Shue
- [ ] Riley Barello-Myers
- [ ] Henk Berkholz
- [x] Dan Hopkins

## Agenda
* PR for product specification - expansion of definition - changed conforms to a specification class https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1109
* Update with hardware class from artifact not Element?
* Automated Data Fields Pointers for sharing discussion review and refinement
* Requirements linkage
* Discuss CRA mapping ideas and the document developed by Greg https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t-L2yt-zYLT3mtWC63Dy0PCl0G52NTJhsV_P26BV9oo/edit?tab=t.0
* Submission of HW and SC for merge into dev main branch
* Arthit Suriyawongkul summary of all 3.1 relationships https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1g9TophkZ2tWhTPMGGHqGOUurzZvOdkBtBJCvyBsa8kc/edit?gid=1850842743#gid=1850842743

## Notes
* Higher level conversation related to regulations, policy and business needs
* Separation exists between needs and regulator desires and business needs or implementations
* Help industry
* Help regulatory players
* Decision makers do not understand process or need
* Transparency issues - have key issue of privacy - Dan
* Acme component is used by multiple org but others make a similar part. Anatomize information - where was that part made
* Idea of misuse of product (CRA) discussion - micro controller/baby monitors

## Action Items
* Misuse of product - What is misuse? HW, SW, and SC discussion

## Decision Items
* Hardware class from artifact
