# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2025-10-03

## Attendees
- [x] Alfred Strauch
- [x] Steven Carbno
- [x] Bob Martin (MITRE)
- [ ] Dishoungh White II
- [x] Kate Stuart
- [ ] Victor Lu
- [ ] Jim Vitrano
- [x] Amit Kumar
- [ ] Issac Asay
- [ ] Lucas Tate
- [ ] Apoorav Trehan
- [ ] Alex Volykin
- [x] Allan Friedman
- [ ] Greg Shue
- [ ] Riley Barello-Myers
- [ ] Henk Berkholz

## Agenda
* PR for product specification - expansion of definition https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1109
* Discuss CRA mapping ideas and the document developed by Greg https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t-L2yt-zYLT3mtWC63Dy0PCl0G52NTJhsV_P26BV9oo/edit?tab=t.0
* Submission of HW and SC for merge into dev main branch

## Notes

### Allan Friedman
* Presented new initiative related to defining the use of HBOMs in business
* Gov acting as if HBOMs exist
* Compliance and end customers need more information
* Manufacturing BOMs do not link well to a SKU
* High security organizations are targeting
* Counterfeiting is an issue
* Business processes and expectations
* Forecasting needs is part of issues - implementation and
* Explicit issues - levels of assurance varies
* Placeholder initiative is HBOM.tech

### Amit
* Traceability with visibility for larger parts of supply chain

### Bob
* NIST visibility framework
* UNDP, DPP, CSA

### Steven
* PR Review
* Intended use field as in data profile, desire to move to core to more effectively reuse
* Will need to review PR with Alex

### Automated Data Fields Pointers for Sharing
* Requirements linkage
* Where do you find data elements, and in what field or element does the data belong or map? Forward and backward looking
* This needs to be an automated process

## Action Items
* Need examples for the use of Requirements linkage

## Decision Items
* (None recorded)
