# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2025-05-09

## Attendees

* Amit Kumar
* Alfred Strauch
* Jim Virano
* Steven Carbno
* Alex Volykin
* Bob Martin (MITRE)
* Ilan Schifter

## Agenda

* Review decisions from TechTeam related to evidence and other issues
  * Additional or changes of values
* Addition to PR to be discussed: Name space addition
* Discuss with group approach related to release of HBOM
* Discuss ideas to deal with Digital Location
* Discuss new PRs

## Notes

* Discussed regulation class - Spec may be optional
  * external ID and reference required for standards
  * may not be public therefore link may be available outside an org.
  * no external reference available
  * date/time not important - some use version
  * revisions need to considered
  * release date is not clear
  * Agents must have SPDX ID
* Name space for additional IDs - optional values for categorization
  * name is taxonomy
  * taxonomy is used to accurately define specific items
* Digital location discussion
  * Ilan - Digital location (no properties) with (1+) locator URI pointing to 1 location
  * Network location - optional description solutions (Kerbinetis considerations)
  * Suggested proprietary information is included - sharing is an issue
  * Container mapping - Where is the information needed for analysis
  * How low do we go?
  * multiple protocols
  * File location
  * Need hardware associated with dlocation
  * defined by relationship
  * starting point creates a point or relevance to locate items
* Unified network ontology ideas

## Decisions

* Only SPDX ID and external ID is mandatory in specification
* Agreement of name space addition - originally requested by Isaac
* Agreement that Hardware profile needs to be finalized ASAP

## Action Items

* Create PR related to specification mandatory changes
