# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2025-09-04

## Attendees
- [x] Alfred Strauch
- [x] Steven Carbno
- [x] Bob Martin (MITRE)
- [ ] Dishoungh White II
- [ ] Kate Stuart
- [x] Victor Lu
- [x] Jim Vitrano
- [ ] Amit Kumar
- [x] Issac Asay
- [ ] Lucas Tate
- [ ] Apoorav Trehan
- [ ] Alex Volykin
- [ ] Allan Friedman
- [x] Greg Shue
- [ ] Riley Barello-Myers
- [ ] Henk Berkholz

## Agenda
* PR update
* Greg wants SC discussed in relation to Zephyr build and reusable sources
* Need more business cases
* Discuss the need for Supply Chain inventory

## Notes
* Zephyr - process, tools - automated procedures to generate an exe
* How do you organize and present info for compliance? Digital element, software, etc. What are the items of a product?
* Software is not software until it is an exe? Clarify what items are involved and discussed? What are the concepts?
* Binary vs exe vs code
* Aluminum ingot vs a purpose part - information adds context - bundle of elements or packages - everything is on a higher level
* Transfer of information between businesses - terminology needs to transcend concrete to deal with abstract - CRA is driving this deeper understanding
* Proprietary vs private information in chain
* Sharing is necessary - why and how
* SCITT - fish and chips use cases for
* Functional safety assurance - certificate of inspection "good until". How is this document?
* Medication expires in warehouse - therefore expiry date or end date is required. Applies to assurance (will present process challenges)
* Next steps - PKO discussion
* How do you maintain links between simple and complex implementations (chain details)
* "And it contains" attestations - no tree breaks (ID or reference)
* Inventory management from the perspective of risk management - where, how much, model of relevance for supply chain using DT

## Action Items
* (None recorded)

## Decision Items
* "Good until" is required for multiple operations in the evaluation result in FuSa
* Inventory will not deal with pricing or sales
