# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2025-07-18

## Attendees

- [x] Alfred Strauch
- [x] Steven Carbno
- [ ] Bob Martin (MITRE)
- [x] Dishoungh White II
- [x] Kate Stuart
- [ ] Victor Lu
- [x] Jim Vitrano
- [x] Amit Kumar
- [x] Isaac Asay
- [ ] Lucas Tate
- [ ] Apoorav Trehan
- [x] Alex Volykin

## Agenda

* Review PRs - old (approved) and new
* Discuss Store vs Storage
  * Action has location - do we need a storage location related to store
* Review Action Items assignments: as seen below (see assigned action items)
  * Please provide documentation of recommended changes
* Review of hardware profile sections from Riley, Bob, Jim and Victor
* Business Cases - SPDX requires the addition of Business Cases related to hardware and supply chain.

Here is a basic template for business cases. Basically 3 paragraphs:
* Problem Description
* Desired Outcome - Solution Requirements
* How SPDX helps solve the problem
* Hardware page here is an example of security https://spdx.dev/learn/areas-of-interest/security/

**TODO:**

**Definition:**

**Personas:** This profile may be produced or consumed by a variety of personas, including:
* Software Developers: They use the information to understand how software is executed on hardware dependencies.
* Security Analysts: They can leverage this data for vulnerability analysis and risk assessment.
* Compliance Officers: This helps them demonstrate compliance with regulations that require supply chain transparency (e.g., GDPR, NIST).
* Procurement Managers: They use it to understand the components in a system before purchasing or renewing licenses.
* IT Administrators: They can leverage this information for inventory management and asset tracking purposes.

**Use Cases:**

**Benefits:**
The key benefit is having a common set of classes, properties and vocabularies provides a common "language" for communicating Hardware Bill of Materials concepts between producer and consumers. The Hardware profile also eases the burden for developers of tools.

## Notes

* Reviewed Modification changes.
* Store vs storage
  * storage is the intended storage of hardware in a location
  * Time issue related to the idea of storage
  * Prescribed vs intended related to processes
  * prescribed has a more specific
  * action location and storage location
  * may be different
  * storage needs cardinality
  * simplify by removing storage from storage
  * storage start time with no possible end time related to backup of data
* Amit's changes
  * all changes approved
* Jim presentation of changes
  * destroy start and end time processes may be problem for some processes such as format drives
  * use of term destruction is important - "unusable"
  * Applies to intentional and unintentional destroy - process needs to be defined as intentional - idea will be expanded related to inventory management
  * destroy action end time is optional - may not know end
  * validation of destroy action can be added through functional safety
  * Fire in warehouse destroys product - what is the start date?
  * Time as a point is a problem
  * start time is required
  * 2 states destruction vs not available - future issue - action = transition
* Responsibility change action
  * similar time action issues - when does responsibility change?
  * define points of responsibility - loading, unloading,
  * time range is an issue - one time - no end time for point in time
  * responsibility changed on - vocabulary issue "on" is a time issue

## Action Items

* Hardware and SC use cases
* Simplify by removing storage location from storage Action
* Mandatory action location
* Responsibility - start time, endtime can be the same
* Responsibility changedOn - any change - universal use - improve description

## Decisions

* Simplify by removing storage from storage
* Responsibility changOn - start/end time can be same
