# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2025-01-17

## Attendees

*(Attendees not indicated in meeting minutes)*

## Agenda

- Review the Tech team comments related to HBOM submission
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/947/files#diff-a79781cb8974f2959810df5fa33172129e38dc4c86885a113e502b3897cc2090
- Virtual would become a separate sub class
  - A subclass may be used to define an abstract type (hammer) rather than a specific hammer. "Generic"
  - Organization entity may become a relationship
- Review Action Methodology for hardware supply chain (SC)
  - Define SC types
  - Review the notion on evidence, process and proof
- Questions related to SC:
  - What is a supply chain?
  - Is any design specification a SC?
  - How does perspective come into play related to a SC?
  - Can be part of multiple supply chains? (abstract products)
  - What is the relationship between SCs?
  - How do you document the relationship between multiple SC?
  - How do you define scope or domain related to SCs?

## Notes

- HBOM physical HW properties are moved from abstract to instantiation
- Enumeration for mass units - refer to https://www.iso.org/standard/74572.html as an example; https://www.qudt.org/ (recommended) may need to create a super and subclass to deal with units
- Discussion related to VM - simulates features related to HW, defines simulation
  - Does this apply to VM based on hypervisor?
  - Different VMs have different properties where HW is immutable
  - How do you differentiate between VMs? Accuracy (level, goal) related to enumeration?
  - Should this be a higher level discussion (Alex)
  - Is this accuracy or model type issue?
- InstantiatedBy should be changed - tech team recommendation
  - Tech team suggested "createdBy"
  - Monty suggests staying with "instantiatedBy"
  - Commonly used term "instantiatedBy"
  - "instantiates" recommended - less confusion of terms (by)
  - "deployedOn" was recommended by Kate
- Version specifically for HW
- Action Methodology Discussion: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-8kGO4zEDJd-A7KqJ3kBVyDhPQIbyQPoXyEFlRdx10s/edit#slide=id.g326b47ed1b4_0_153
  - Reviewed high level model
  - Issue: What is a supply chain -- perspective and need related processes and requirements
  - Discussed the various levels of interaction related to the concept of SC
  - Amit suggested the methodology needs to support mining to chip development
  - Need to create a case study of the methodology to work through the issues
  - Action Methodology is basically a process engineering mapping concept

## Decisions

- Approved moving properties related to HW
- Approved "instantiates"
- Approved Version specifically for HW

## Action Items

- Methodology development is a separate initiative as generic concept
