# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2025-05-16

## Attendees

* Amit Kumar
* Alfred Strauch
* Jim Virano
* Steven Carbno
* Bob Martin (MITRE)
* Ilan Schifter
* Lucas Tate

## Agenda

* Review Approve PR for taxonomy types (namespace)
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1027
* Clarify issues related to Digital Location
* PR related to Specification - defined properties
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1028
* Discuss outstanding PRs:
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1025/
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1024
* Update group related on progress related to FuSa, S-AI and Cryptology

## Notes

* Provided an overview to Lucas Tate, Department of Energy
* Taxonomy type - added additional information
  * Taxonomy class
  * Specification objects
* Name space should be moved into core so you can name "Specific Industry or segment"
  * Would like Name space to be included in core
  * Industry could be added to hardware ???
* Recommendation to ensure relationships definitions are clear and specific
* Add reviewer permissions to PRs- Art, Ilan, Gary
* Digital Location:
  * Ilan presents -
  * Persistent, multi layered
    * Framework
    * Access
    * Location
  * Multi Environment
    * Software
    * Hardware
  * Provenance/Linkage
    * Currently no way to detect attack
* Resource Type
  * Network
  * Cloud
  * Kubernetes
  * Containers
  * Files
  * Snippets
* Need to consider process with Dlocation
  * Locator
  * Locator type
  * Object properties
    * Alternate location
    * Nested
    * GPS, street
    * Relationship: contains - from, to

## Decisions

* Name space approved for Hardware 1027
* Need to discuss moving name space to core
* Specification update PR 1028 approved
* 1024 and 1025 PR review to resolve issues
* Ilan will continue with Dlocation research

## Action Items

* Consider moving taxonomy type (namespace) to core as suggested by Isaac
  * To define sectors
  * Can be used to define AI agent types
