# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2025-12-12

## Attendees

* [X] Alfred Strauch
* [X] Steven Carbno
* [X] Bob Martin (MITRE)
* [ ] Dishoung White II
* [ ] Kate Stewart
* [X] Victor Lu
* [ ] Jim Vitrano
* [ ] Amit Kumar
* [ ] Issac Asay
* [ ] Lucas Tate
* [ ] Apoorav Trehan
* [ ] Alex Volykin
* [ ] Allan Friedman
* [X] Greg Shue
* [ ] Riley Barello-Myers
* [ ] Henk Berkholz
* [ ] Dan Hopkins
* [ ] Courtney Ng
* [ ] Andrew Viater
* [ ] Raymond Sheh
* [ ] Stanislav Pankevich
* [X] Karen Bennet
* [ ] Marcel Kurzamann
* [ ] Raymond Sheh
* [ ] Michael Pease (NIST Standards)
* [X] Jenn Power (Red Hat)

## Agenda

* Review PRs & 3.1 status
* Determine Dec/Jan meeting schedule
* Discuss the group's needs related to outreach as defined in the [Outreach Plan](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kTM-YPbLHzrH76vYDDGsNzT9ZAoiq6yO-3gdNPRv-FU/edit?slide=id.g3acdb5bf179_0_13#slide=id.g3acdb5bf179_0_13)
* [Video Resource](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q-YcFC6uz3w)
* Discussion questions outlined in last week's meeting
* Spreadsheet enhancements with Greg - Discuss Sheets - Annex VII
* [Google Sheets Link](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10KdQTkXH3K-kp1zD7wIhuSUc91U8ttm7gVZ0BEVC004/edit?gid=0#gid=0)
* [OWASP ASVS Reference](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)



## Last week's Questions: New answers

* **Updates (product, components):** What can and cannot be updated? (e.g., kernel)
* **Transparency:** What is public vs. NDA protected?
* **Operations:** Auditing and performance are part of the issue.
* **Documentation:** Must be part of user documentation.
* **Compliance:** Integrators must comply by including technical documentation and risk analysis.
* **Risk Illustration:** Example discussion related to USB Dongles will illustrate risk.
* **Decommissioning:** May require an interface; consider connectivity issues and uninstalling components.
* **Life Cycle:** Product life cycle must be considered (defined in CRA Annex I).
* **Annex II Decommissioning:** Removal of data is not restricted to software. Requires detailed instructions for secure removal of personal data (PD) and other data.
* **User Data:** System updates for both connected and non-connected devices are included.
* **Settings:** Default settings (persistent/unchangeable) and variable accessibility.
* **Requirements:** What are the memory requirements?
* **Access Control:** Issues regarding access modification data (Annex I 2F); all of Annex II will be public.
* **Public/Private Data:** * Does this imply related projects need to be public? (Unclear due to NDA issues).
* Does Annex VII-1 B make Annex II public?
* May include private data because of Annex II.


* **Integration:** Is there a definition for "integrate" regarding product integration requirements? (e.g., some other commercially saleable solution).
* **Intended Use:** Driver for identifying and encoding related information.
* **Technical Documentation:** Discussion regarding Annex VII.
* **Subsets:** Discussion on 1A intended purpose.
* **Components:** Pulled together; will likely include HW in the future.
* **Internal Layout:** What is included? At what level?
* **Process:** Separation of design vs. development vs. production; rationalized approach.
* **Architecture:** Data formats, schematics, drawings, business decisions, and data flow.

## Conformance & Pull Requests

* Greg Shue submitted a [PR related to the commodity device conformity example](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/126).
* Greg will review the status of the conformance example.
* Discussion on categories of focus for conformance: Details to be added for connectivity, hardware, software, etc.
* Goal to document the purpose of the Engineering Methodology in relation to SPDX and CRA.

## Notes

* Discussed fundamental reasoning/approach of CRA in the context of product development vs. political needs.
* Included the role of process engineering.
* HS, SC, and CRA need to determine how to spread news as part of Outreach.
* Jennifer Powers shared a video related to Red Hat's approach to CRA: [CRA Ready Tech Talk](https://openssf.org/resources/tech-talks/tech-talk-cra-ready/).
* [Gemara](https://gemara.openssf.org/) is a tool used by Red Hat.
* Objective to create a shared responsibility model.
* Working to include an AI persona for responsibilities.
* No PRs currently related to HW and SC.
* Greg has requested a development activities branch for Conformance Examples.
* **Schedule:** Last meeting in 2025 is Dec 19. Dec 26 and Jan 2 are cancelled.
* **Policy Discussion:** Relationship between policy, regulations, and requirements as applied to CRA.
* **Resource:** [OpenSSF MLSecOps Whitepaper](https://openssf.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/OpenSSF_MLSecOps_Whitepaper.pdf)

## Action Items

* Everyone to review the marketing plan to determine how members can support the group's objectives.
* Reviewers: Please review PRs and commits.
* Invite others to the meeting.
* Discuss threat modeling issues (noting similarity between controls and threats).

## Decision Items
