# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2026-01-30

## Attendees
* [x] Alfred Strauch
* [x] Steven Carbno
* [x] Bob Martin (MITRE)
* [ ] Dishoung White II
* [ ] Kate Stewart
* [ ] Victor Lu
* [x] Jim Vitrano 
* [ ] Amit Kumar
* [x] Issac Asay
* [ ] Lucas Tate
* [ ] Apoorav Trehan 
* [ ] Alex Volykin
* [ ] Allan Friedman
* [ ] Cassie Crossley                                 
* [x] Greg Shue 
* [ ] Riley Barello-Myers 
* [ ] Henk Berkholz
* [ ] Dan Hopkins
* [ ] Courtney Ng
* [ ] Andrew Viater 
* [ ] Raymond Sheh 
* [ ] Stanislav Pankevich
* [ ] Karen Bennet
* [ ] Marcel Kurzamann
* [ ] Michael Pease (NIST Standards)
* [ ] Jenn Power (Red Hat) 
* [x] Arthit Suriyawongkul

## Agenda 
* **Review PRs:** No open PRs.
* **Acknowledgments:** Thank you, Karen, for the ENISA submission.
* **Release Update:** V3.1(rc1) has been released for general use. (Please report any issues for resolution).
* **Outreach Strategy:** Moving to support individual profile website implementations driven by each profile group. 
* **Responsibilities:** This group will be responsible for **Hardware**, **Supply Chain**, and **CRA** (other).
* **Resources:**
    * [SPDX AI Ideas & Participation](https://spdxai.github.io/)
    * [CRA Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10KdQTkXH3K-kp1zD7wIhuSUc91U8ttm7gVZ0BEVC004/edit?gid=0#gid=0)
    * [OWASP ASVS Reference](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)

## Notes
### General Strategy
* The expression of the spreadsheet needs to also correspond to SPDX to help to roll out the implementation of CRA requirements in SPDX.
* The example will correspond to use in SPDX.
* **Next Steps:** Create a schedule with Annex sections to be discussed at the next meeting; complete overview first to establish principles.
* Conformance based on the **SEBoK** site - tied to the CRA spreadsheet examples.

### Annex II (Users & Formats)
* Annex 2 user, purchaser, formats; added comment related to the need for multiple languages.
* Any type of user - consumer of a product (end consumer or corporate/System on Chip).
* SCs cannot cover all aspects of data.

### Annex VII (Documentation & Cybersecurity)
* Built on Annex II - required for auditing. Refers to human-readable user language (photos, illustrations, etc.).
* Mapping to requirements/SEBoK.
* **Tools:** Versions may affect compliance or product output, which will impact SCs.
* **Traceability:** Process, decisions, risk assessment (available to the auditor and consumer).
* **Integration:** Integrator information for product integration into other products (Architecture integration).
* **Assessment:** Must be included in SC; early artifact for essential cybersecurity.

### Annex I (Risk & Engineering)
* Produced to mitigate risk for users; provide artifacts and evidence.
* Engineering process required (usage dependent).
* No explainable vulnerabilities; mandatory functionality.
* Easy opt-out process and incident tracking.
* Integrity of stored data (corruption reporting) and unauthorized access logging.

### Discussion Points
* Do we capture what CRA requires as opposed to what SPDX has available? Goal is to help identify and support the application of CRA requirements.
* Changes to CRA require legislative approval by EU.

## Action Items
* [ ] Reviewed the new profile sites as defined by Art.
* [ ] **NEXT WEEK'S TOPIC:** Annex VII Clause 3 - Cybersecurity assessment.
* [ ] Document key issue in spreadsheet.
* [ ] Map issue into SEBoK - requirement statements.

## Decision Items
* Will create a topic schedule and outcomes per week.
* Agreed there will be parallel completion of the spreadsheet and the engineering process (SEBoK) showing maps to SPDX.
* **Agenda items:** Create overview; order issues and topics to consider.
