# SPDX Hardware Team Meeting 2026-01-09

## Attendees

* [X] Alfred Strauch
* [X] Steven Carbno
* [X] Bob Martin (MITRE)
* [ ] Dishoung White II
* [ ] Kate Stewart
* [X] Victor Lu
* [X] Jim Vitrano
* [ ] Amit Kumar
* [X] Issac Asay
* [ ] Lucas Tate
* [ ] Apoorav Trehan
* [ ] Alex Volykin
* [ ] Allan Friedman
* [X] Greg Shue
* [ ] Riley Barello-Myers
* [ ] Henk Berkholz
* [ ] Dan Hopkins
* [ ] Courtney Ng
* [ ] Andrew Viater
* [ ] Raymond Sheh
* [ ] Stanislav Pankevich
* [X] Karen Bennet
* [ ] Marcel Kurzamann
* [ ] Raymond Sheh
* [ ] Michael Pease (NIST Standards)
* [ ] Jenn Power (Red Hat)

# Agenda

* Review PRs & 3.1 status - no new PR
* Refresh our thinking related to where we left off in Dec. Any new CRA developments?
* Determine next steps and road map

# Background information

* Threat modeling issues need to be discussed - important for CRA evaluation
* Risk is threat + potential harm
* Need to define product scope! Needs to be done by this group.
* Can SPDX fulfill the needs of a product manufacturer? Submit conformance requirements
* This issue will touch on several profiles.

* The engineering process needs to be considered, especially those t supported by numerous organisations.
* How will they be expressed in SPDX?
* Spreadsheet enhancements with Greg - Discuss Sheets - Annex VII [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10KdQTkXH3K-kp1zD7wIhuSUc91U8ttm7gVZ0BEVC004/edit?gid=0#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10KdQTkXH3K-kp1zD7wIhuSUc91U8ttm7gVZ0BEVC004/edit?gid=0#gid=0)
* [https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)

## Notes

* Compliance is not done with SPDX
* SPDX supports validation
* The road map is:
* Complete spreadsheet (identify key points of risk)
* Mapped against SPDX profiles - defined uniquely per company
* Translate the CRA issues into an engineering method example


* Need to map key issues (starts with product), followed by a strategy to map against SPDX
* The product example will have enough information to provide guidance related to multiple product categories or types
* Karen - Assumes the information field completed in SPDX will provide all the information needed by CRA (??)
* Allowance in CRA related to evidence presentation - process is recommended - use of bundles
* Subtopics are generated - multiple profiles are included
* How far do we need to go in relation to the use of methodology?
* CRA is creating content on the use of methodologies. What methodology did you use?
* Business understanding related to SPDX is basic, and they do not understand how SPDX can be used.
* Businesses do not invest in product security and reliability. Engineering is software is decades behind mission-critical hardware (aerospace)
* SPDX can create a solution for capturing, sharing, and risk mitigation is the role.

## Action Items

* Next week, we will work on the spreadsheet during the meeting.
* Invite others to the meeting.

## Decision Item

* Complete spreadsheet, followed by mapping,
* An engineering example will impact mapping
