# SPDX General Meeting Minutes- 2024-05-02

## Administrative
- Meeting run by Rose Judge
- Approve meeting minutes from April meeting: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/676
  - Approved

## Presentation: State of SBOM in 2024
- Presenter: Dr. Allan Friedman
- https://www.cisa.gov/sbom
- SBOM is now reasonable understood but still variance in implementation and guidance (esp. tooling)
- SBOM used to be chicken and egg problem but we are slowly moving towards more turnkey solutions
- A lot of SBOM going on in the US Government
- Started with multistakeholder work - not official US Government policy
- 2021 NTIA Minimum Elements ( EO 14028) published which WAS official government document
  - CISA will be updating minimum elements this year
  - FYI, there's a HOWTO on how to create an NTIA "Minimum Elements" SPDX 2.3 SBOM, at: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-ntia-sbom-howto/
- NTIA multistakeholder framing document "baseline attributes" - extrapolates on minimum elements
  - Adds component hash
- Incomplete information: known unknowns (I am aware of opacity in my supply chain) and redactions (I don't wish to disclose detail)
- "Types" of SBOM - source, build, binary analysis
  - Still working how to map this into policy or contract language. How do we be clear about what is being asked for and delivered?
- Depth matters in an SBOM! 2021 minimum elements only requires top level with enough context to look into others
- How do we define completeness?
- EO14028 SBOM requirements slowly softened overtime in favor of Self-Attestation Form punlished by OMB and CISA (software producer maintains provenence to the greatest extent possible)
  - Repository for Software Attestations and Artifacts (receives SPDX docs)
- Updating SBOM Guidance via CISA community led efforts:
  - SBOM Framing Document
  - Updating minimum elements model
- Current pain points
  - Discovery, access control, transport
    - Not a one size fits all solution
  - SBOM for cloud
    - Whose responsibility is it to keep the software secure and data safe? Producer/Chooser/Operator/Subscriber
  - Software identity
    - Naming problem
    - CISA wrote "Software ID ecosystem option analysis" but no current solution yet
  - Complex Systems of Systems
    - Hard to describe a dependency graph with software that is not monolithic app
  - What do we do with all these SBOMs?
    - Still lacking tools that can take the SBOM info and drive action
- European Policies:
  - NIS2 2022
  - Cyber Resilience Act: SBOM requirements
- Global Harmonization:
  - International staff-level working group on SBOM
- New ideas: Hardware Bill of Materials/AI BOM/Cryptographic bill of materials
- Where should SPDX focus? Interoperability and Repeatability. Plugfests upcoming

## Tech Team Report
- SPDX 3.0 Released! - see https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0/
- Recieved some good feeback on the documentation, being encorporated
- No issues identified that would impact the model or tooling
- Focus on tools and examples

### AI / Dataset  Profile Team - Karen/Gopi
- Working on 3.1 proposals.
- White paper about SPDX 3.0 use of AI & Dataset in progress. 
- SPDX 3.0 Validated with EU AI Act 2023,   US FDA (Medical Devices) Regulations & IEEE AI Ethics (P70xx) Series Standards

### Build Profile Team - Brandon/Nisha
- Waiting on implementation to validate if the build profile works as intended
- Joshua has some example using the yocto project

### Functional Safety Team - Nicole/Kate
- Working on Requirements class as part of Safety Profile,  discussing states to be enumerated.
- Comparison of approaches in ELISA & Zephyr for handling requirements.

### Hardware Team - Kate
- Started looking at options for relationships that are specific to software running on hardware
- New participants bringing in addition existing work to consider for incorporating.
- Hardware profile is seeking input from manufactures and relevant groups relate to important requirements. 

### Implementers Team - Rose
- Discussion picking up with 3.0 - focusing on generating examples for tooling operators and documentation around validation/generation/best practices for 3.0
- Moving meeting cadence to every week in the wake of 3.0 release

### Licensing Profile Team - Steve
- Will take a look at responding to remaining issues that were moved to 3.1 for consideration

### Lite Profile Team - Ito/Ninjouji/Asaba/Kobota
- Completed Annex in time for inclusion in SPDX 3.0
- Japan team is creating some examples for Lite profile.

### Operations Team - Matthew Crawford
- Completed the list of proposed fields. We plan to present to the tech team in a few weeks (still finding a suitable time), then open it up to the community for review/comment.

### Security Profile Team - Jeff/Rose
- Working on a VEX annex that shows folks how to use/implement VEX in SPDX
  - Working PR here: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/933
- Also targeting a "VEX to SPDX objects mapping" table to be included in this annex (see: 

### Serialization Team - Joshua Watt
- Moved to topic oriented meetings - primary work completed with SPDX 3.0

### Software as a Service Team – Gary
- Working through use cases - not much progress over the last month, expect things to pick up now that 3.0 has released
- Could use more participation for anyone interested!

### Legal Team Update - Jilayne/Steve
- License List v3.24 release upcoming, likely shortly following next Legal Team meeting next week

### Outreach Team - Alexios/Bob
- 3.0 release
- conferences: OpenSource Summit North America, FOSS-North, LLW
- asking for updated information on tools (especially proprietary licensed)

## General Announcements
- Open Source Summit videos at https://www.youtube.com/@LinuxfoundationOrg/videos

## Attendees (37)
- Aditi Sharma
- Allan Friedman
- Alex Rybak (Revenera)
- Alex Stewart (NI)
- Alexios Zavras
- Alfred L Strauch
- Alfredo Espinosa
- Amber
- Andy
- Brad Goldring (GTC Law Group)
- David Edelsohn
- Gary O'Neall
- Jacob Wilson
- James Fuller (Red Hat Product Security)
- Jeff Schutt
- Jilayne Lovejoy
- Jim Vitrano
- Joshua Watt
- Karen Bennet
- Karsten Klein
- Lukas Panni
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Marcel Kurzmann
- Matthew Crawford (arm)
- Maximilian Huber
- Michael Herzog
- Mike Dolan
- Mimi Flynn
- Mukul Lohar
- Norio Kobota
- Nisha Kumar
- Rose Judge
- Steve Winslow
- Steven Carbno
- Venkat Ramakrishnan
- Victoria Ontiveros

###  Regrets:
- Kate Stewart
- Phil Odence
