# SPDX General Meeting Minutes- 2024-01-11
## Administrative
* Lead by Phil Odence
* Minutes from last meeting to approve: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/main/general/2023-12-07.md
* Attendees - 38
 
## Presentation: 
* Presenter: Aditi Sharma, Dell
* Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) and Vulnerability Exploitability Exchange (VEX)
* Dell's handling Exec Order
  * Defined EO and SBOM
  * Brought in key stakeholders to formulate and execute a plan (for the EO overall, not just SBOM part)
  * For the most part controls/processes were in place to produce inventory
* Key touchpoints (generation, management, customers, other impacts)
  * Generation- Needed to extend inventory to SBOM requirements
  * Management- providing on demand; key to push management to development teams through governance
    * Customers- Training for customer facing folks
    * Other- Risk, suppliers, global, industry awareness
* SPDX very good but not silver bullet
  * omits how compnent is integrated
  * could give false sense of security
* Key foundations
  * Dependency management (third party code risks, sourcing, integrating inventories, vuln notifications)
  * Trasnparency
  * Other (hardeniting, supplier partnering, root cause analysis, KPIs)
* VEX
  * Simply status of vulnerablities in products
  * Vuln lifecycle (discover, triage/eval, remediate, disclose)
  * VEX reflects those steps
  * Sounds easy but there a lots of issues (people/stakeholders, money/tools, support)
 
 
## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary
* Most of the "big issues" requiring discussion for RC2 have been resolved
  * 14 pull requests with model updates have been merged in December
  * 14 issues were resolved in December
  * 24 issues remaining
  * Remaining work on the spec parser tooling and documentation generation
 
* Security Profile - Jeff
  * Locked in for some time
  * Focus on apendicies, etc and validation
 
* Licensing Profile - Steve
  * a few updates to the model regarding individual elements (NoneLicense and NoAssertionLicense)
  * (not specific to licensing profile) Decision reached on change proposal for SPDX document DataLicense - https://github.com/spdx/change-proposal/issues/8#issuecomment-1877702113
  * Long standing change proposal about how docs will handle data licenses
    * Previous versions required CC0
    * Landed on not making that manditory any longer, though strongly encouraged
 
* Build Profile - Brandon/Nisha
  * Also has been stable for months
 
* Lite Profile - Ito/Ninjouji/Asaba/Kobota
  * Merged LP into model
  * More work to be done on serialization format, to be worked on post RC2
 
* AI Profile -  Karen/Gopi
  * Working Group time changed to accomodate new members - at 3pm ET / Wednesday
  * 2024 New Members:  We are seeing the addiitonal of companies who consult on creating sbom (mainly
 AI/Dataset); Chinese government is interested as well
  * We have been aceepted to US AI EO  LOI call, meeting to start next month
  * All work on sBOM 3.0 completed, but plan to add more examples to repo
  * Starting to gather from creators of AI sbom, what's missing
 
* Dataset Profile - Karen/Gopi 
  * Nothing new, 2024 meeting to be scheduled soon
 
* Functional Safety - Nicole/Kate
  * Working with two open source tools (Strictdoc, Basil) for requirements management to generate/consume SPDX
  * Working on examples with Zephyr requirements
  * FOSDEM talk in SBOM Devroom 
 
* Canonicalization / Serialization - Max/Gary
  * All work for RC2 was already complete - no new updates
 
* Software as a Service â€“ Gary
  * Starting to work on the actual model specification for the top 2 use cases identified
 
* Hardware - Kate
  * Moving forward with proposals for virtual environments
  * Formalize for physical based on CISA HW
 
* Implementers - Rose
  * Code generators from SPDX 3.0 Spec.   Meeting at FOSDEM.
  * Handling different packaging ecosystems.  Parsing metadata. 
 
## Legal Team Update - Jilayne/Steve
* Year in review
  * Fedora adopted using SPDX IDs in license field as of late July 22
  * First time that a major distro has adopted with this level of collaboration with SPDX group; ergo great outcome
  * 3 releases during the year; 184 new licenses (mostly Fedora); 220 PRs (lots of not-easy decision-making involved); HPND license (OSI approved) has come up wiht lots of variations;
* Target release date for 3.23 at end of January (including 19 new licenses, taking 2023 over 200)
* Shout out to Miroslav from RH for cranking through lots of hands-on work processing PRs.

## Outreach Team Update - Alexios/Bob
* FOSDEM SBOM devroom schedule published
  * Sponsoring pre-FOSDEM tool/user meetup
  * Organizing FOSDEM face-to-face meeting
* GSoC call for project ideas and mentor volunteering
* Working on tool inclusion processes
 
## General Announcements
* Feb Meeting moved to Feb 8; aiming for RC2 review
* Steering Committee nomination process to kickoff
* Future presentations?

## Attendees - 38
* Phil Odence, Synopsys
* Mark Atwood, Amazon.com
* James Fuller, Red Hat Product Security
* Mary Hardy, Microsoft
* Steve Winslow
* Gary O'Neall
* Karen Bennet
* Alexios Zavras
* Aditi Sharma
* Alfred L. Strauch
* Alfredo Espinosa
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Brad Goldring, GTC Law Group
* Daniel Bardenstein
* David Prater
* David Shields
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie
* Jessie Vaught
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Jim Vitrano
* Karsten Klein
* Madhuri Padmanabhan
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Marcel Kurzmann
* Maximilian Huber
* Mimi Flynn
* Nisha Kumar
* Robert Martin
* Shalini Batra
* Stanislav Pankevich
* Takashi NINJOUJI
* Venkat Ramakrishnan
* Tim Bird, Sony
* Matthew Crawford, Arm
* Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
* Gary Armstrong, FossID
* Steven Carbno
