# SPDX General Meeting Minutes- 2024-07-11

## Administrative
- Meeting run by Alexios Zavras and Rose Judge

## Administrative
- Approve meeting minutes from last week: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/713

## Presentations: 
### Cryptographic Algorithms List in SPDX
- Presenter: Agustin Benito Bethencourt, Independent Consultant representing SCANOSS 
- Intro by Alexios Z. describing that new initiative by SPDX to create a list of cryptographic algorithms, analogous to the license list already created by SPDX.
- Check the existing repo: https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms
- Agustin briefly introduces SCANOSS as well as crypto_algorithms_open_dataset, the contribution (CC0) that included the list of algorithms that SPDX will start with
- Description of the motivations for SCANOSS to publish such dataset and the limitations they face that SPDX is a solution for, as vendor neutral, open gov. and community driven effort.
- Description of why is this list relevant for everyone, and especially for markets like Software Composition Analysis (SCA), trade compliance, security certification, auditing, quantum safety... Agustin highlights the relevance of standardising the way we declare cryptographic algorithms and make them a popular element within SBOMs
- Call for participation: in order to succeed, this initiative requires people with different profiles and focus, not just on the list itself, but also on the data structure associated to the list
- Some relevant links:
  - SPDX crypto algorithms list: https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms
  - crypto_algorithms_open_dataset (origin of the SPDX list): https://github.com/scanoss/crypto_algorithms_open_dataset
  - About SCANOSS: http://www.scanoss.com

### CRA Requirement Analysis / Stewards and SBOMs
  - Presenter: Karsten Klein, founder and CTO of metaeffekt GmbH 
  - https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/TA-9-2024-0130_EN.html 
  - https://www.bsi.bund.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/EN/BSI/Publications/TechGuidelines/TR03183/BSI-TR-03183-2.pdf?__blob=publicationFile&v=5 

## Tech Team Report
- Working with team on resolving bugs spotted in the 3.0 spec.
- Alexios and Bob are working on getting it transformed with OMG tools to be ISO ready. 
- Working on refinement of the the spec parser, to generate more useful information.
- Working on infrastructure to support translations. 

### AI / Dataset Profiles Team - Karen/Gopi
- 3.1 Release PRs discussion underway
- Group continues to create AI system use cases 
- Long waited whitepaper almost ready to be published

### Build Profile Team - Brandon/Nisha
- No updates

### Functional Safety Team - Nicole/Kate
- Drafted "Requirements" class for 3.1,  and now working on determining appropriate properties for Evidence. 

### Hardware Team - Kate/Steven/Alfred
- Moving from use cases to doing preliminary modeling of classes, and identification of properties. 

### Implementers Team - Rose
- Nisha and Keith working on go tooling for SPDX 3.0
- Gary working on Java tooling for SPDX 3.0

### Licensing Profile Team - Jilayne/Steve
- None

### Lite Profile Team - Ito/Ninjouji/Asaba/Kobota
- Continuing to refine profile.
- Discussion with tech team as to whether it should remain as an appendix (in addition to being in the specification as a formal profile) for ease of users. 

### Operations Team - Matthew Crawford
- Presented to Tech team, work supported. Open to review, by community. 

### Security Profile Team - Jeff/Rose
- Security work/meetings paused

### Serialization Team - Joshua Watt
- No update

### Software as a Service Team – Gary
- Meetings paused
- Once contributors free up from SPDX 3.0 tooling work, we plan on adding one more pull request to finish out the use case implementations targeted for 3.1

### Legal Team Update - Jilayne/Steve
- Targeting 3.25 License List release for early August

### Outreach Team - Alexios/Bob
- Preparing the spec for publication (in HTML and PDF formats)
- Still collecting information on tools 

## General Announcements
- Team leads: Please approve and merge team meeting minutes, we have back log up to 2022. There are also some PRs that got closed without merge.
  - AI and Data: 12
  - Asia Tech: 2
  - Hardware: 10
  - Implementers: 7
  - Legal: 9
  - Safety: 34
  - Security: 7
  - Serialisation: 3
  - Tech: 6

## Attendees (20)
- Agustin Benito Bethencourt (SCANOSS)
- Alexios Zavras
- Alfredo Espinosa (Continental)
- Alfred Strauch
- Bob Martin (MITRE)
- Brad Goldring
- Dick Brooks, Business Cyber Guardian (BCG)
- Gary O'Neall
- Ismael Navas Delgado (Universidad de Málaga - UMA)
- Jeronimo Ortiz (SCANOSS)
- Karen Bennet (IEEE/ISO)
- Karsten Klein (metaeffekt)
- Mimi Flynn
- Phil Odence, Synopsys
- Rose Judge (late)
- Sandy Wambold (Juniper Networks)
- Steven Carbno
- Steve Winslow
- Tim Bird (Sony)
- Ummo Schwarting
