# SPDX General Meeting Minutes 2024-10-03

## Attendees

- Rose Judge
- Peter Monks
- Alin Jerpelea
- Olle Johansson
- Joshua Watt
- Nikola Babadzhanov
- Nisha Kumar
- Ilan Schifter
- Maximilian Huber
- Steven Carbno
- Jilayne Lovejoy
- Robert Martin
- Jim Vitrano
- Karen Benet
- Brad Goldring
- James Fuller
- Steve Winslow
- Mark Atwood

## Administrative

- Approve meeting minutes from last month: <https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/776>

## Presentation - "Inferring SDPX license expressions from license names in the JVM/Maven ecosystem"

- Speaker: Peter Monks
- Why? Existing tools were found lacking for the JVM / Maven ecosystem. Initial work supported FINOS requirements and continued post-FINOS out of interest
- Builds on the SPDX Java library
- clj-spdx: Idiomatic Clojure wrapper - "pure" spdx logic
- lice-comb: combs through artifacts to find license information
- tools-licenses: simple command line tool that outputs license information
- What is the tool NOT?
  - An SBOM construction tool (maven lacks the metadata to construction SPDX models)
  - An end-user application (these are libraries and build tools mostly for developers)
  - Stateful (inferred license expressions are not "remembered")
  - Forensic (Evaluates publicly deployed artifacts only - no source code)
- Demo
- SPDX identifiers are normalized - will replace deprecated IDs with non deprecated equivalents. This is a feature, can be turned off
- Works with license refs and addition refs
- Does the tool use license list xml and matching guidelines? - Using the SPDX Java library
- Lice comb: can resolve license expressions to SPDX identifiers

## Tech Team Report

- 3.0.1 completed the SPDX review cycle
- A few minor spelling / corrections made to the 3.0.1 spec
- One model "fix" to add an organization Individual allow a standard creation information for SPDX element individuals (see <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/880>)
- See <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/510358fb59cd7120dd0714fbdf4c4446bafa0e54/CHANGELOG.md> for the current changelog
- OMG milestones met: OMG Architecture Board approved SPDX 3.0.1 document, going to OMG Editor for final review then to the OMG Board of Directors Business Committee. We already have 10 organizations ready to implement so that is a go. Just need to incorporate the final edits mentioned above and get it blessed by the Editor.
- Preparing ISO submission Plan is to have the same basic pdf for Linux Foundation, OMG, and ISO with only the cover pages and one organization specific page being different. Once done with OMG Editor we can generate those and send the ISO one in under a joint submission letter, which needs to be crafted.

### AI / Dataset Profiles Team - Karen/Gopi

- Presentation given to OpenChain group on SPDX AI-BOM, well received, will circulate recording as soon as available.Other talk today at Data Connect (in Toronto) and Black Hat on Oct 23 (in Toronto) on AI-BOM
- Whitepaper / User Guide for AI-BOM: Core, Security, Software, AI, Dataset, License open to community review (still waiting on LF editorial signoff): LF SPDX 3.0 AI BOM whitepaper (<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WZp6gsfjtEVuiqK6swukffQ8Wl0Aj1NtH-Z8WJMgvGc/edit#heading=h.7vqg23db6ecf>) All feedback welcome
- NTIA 2024 Minimal AI fields discussion started, SAP survey comparing SPDX AI-BOM with other systems like model cards/etc. 60% + in what we capture, other model cards/etc fields deemed not needed. The only change to SPDX AI Profile, is better metrics details for benchmarking/performance.
- 3.1 AI related fields started to be implemented, synthetic data and software discussions underway, if there are other profile group that have had discussions on this, would appreciated getting more information. Plan is to create a similar 'whitepaper' for 3.1 AI-BOM as the one listed above.
- Estimated schedule for 3.1 release?

### Build Profile Team - Brandon/Nisha

-

### Functional Safety Team - Nicole/Kate

-

### Hardware Team - Steven/Alfred/Kate

-

### Implementers Team - Rose

-

### Licensing Profile Team - Jilayne/Steve

- no updates

### Lite Profile Team - Ito/Ninjouji/Asaba/Kobota

-

### Operations Team - Matthew/Marcel/Ummo

- We just did a deep dive session using the mermaid notation, assessing where each field should connect to. We still need to add the class descriptions in the official markdown notation, then will be ready for more community discussion. Aiming to align with the 3.1 release.

### Security Profile Team - Jeff/Rose

- No updates

### Serialization Team - Joshua Watt

-

### Software as a Service Team – Gary

- No updates - waiting for 3.0.1 release

## Legal Team Update - Jilayne/Steve

- Next license release for end of October, business as usual

## Outreach Team - Alexios/Bob

- The new tools page (<https://spdx.dev/use/spdx-tools/>) continues to be added to with new entries and it is being refined by Linux Foundation staff to function better. Have 50 currently. Need to review entire site for updating to 3.0.1.
