# SPDX General Meeting Minutes - 2024-04-04

## Administrative
- Minutes from March meeting accepted.

## AI Presentation - Karen

AI BOM https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17dVyimQi01k6FeEfA7itrD_IgbSWQj5MRWmpo1Swnrg/edit#slide=id.g29fd1974863_0_0

## Tech Team Report
### Core / Software
- OMG Architectual board reviewed and approved specification.
- Final details for the 3.0 release
- Added schema files for release:
  - https://spdx.org/schema/3.0.0/spdx-json-schema.json
  - https://spdx.org/rdf/3.0.0/spdx-model.ttl
  - https://spdx.org/rdf/3.0.0/spdx-context.jsonld
- Working to tag it in the next week before OSS NA
- Documentation auto generation in ISO format for specification is WIP.
- Targeting release for Open Source Summit NA
- Keep an eye on emails and issues, especially if you are tagged
- Need some help in security profile in particular
- Clean up on issues in spec repo - please help

### AI / Dataset  Profile Team - Karen/Gopi
- Other than one late clarification which is still WIP, all other 3.0 PRs closed
- Kickstarted discussion on 3.1
- Outreach: Whitepaper/user manual on SPDX AI BOM 3.0 to be published by April 15
- Papers at OSS Summit NA - April 16-18
- AI BOM Workshop at RSA - https://lu.ma/AIBOM-workshop-RSAC2024 
- Broadening msg to channels that AI Developers  and Data Scientists hung out 

### Build Profile Team - Brandon/Nisha
- Yocto prototyping use of build profile based on 3.0

### Functional Safety Team - Nicole/Kate
- Continuing work on prototyping SPDX with safety documentation, with strictdoc.
- Discussed introducing new fields for requirements in SPDX 3.1
  - "requirements profile" to avoid confusing overloads with software
    (which is where we're prototyping)

### Hardware Team - Kate
- Working on merging current analyis work with Core Fields, and starting to define model to include in 3.1.

### Implementers Team - Rose
- Discussed Python code generation writted by Joshua

### Licensing Profile Team - Steve
- Resolved some final issues in prep for 3.0

### Lite Profile Team - Ito/Ninjouji/Asaba/Kobota
- Working to get issues resolved for 3.0 Annex Inclusion.

### Operations Team - Matthew Crawford
- Final alterations are being made to the proposed fields. We plan to present to the technical team shortly.

### Security Profile Team - Jeff
- still some open issues that need to be worked through

### Serialization Team - Joshua Watt
- Examples being generated to be shared, in examples directory.

### Software as a Service Team – Gary
- Implemented use case 9 Trust the identity of the service provider (authentication)
  - Pull request 663 in the model repo

### Legal Team Update - Jilayne/Steve
- Plugging along through issues, Jilayne has been sending email with a list of
  issues that need review to help make it easer for people to contribute
- Looking at some updates to the License Inclusion Guidelines
  - Nothing major, more about making it user-friendly with potential addition
    of explanations, etc.
  - Will submit Change Proposal when ready

### Outreach Team - Alexios/Bob
- Preparation for SPDX 3.0 Announce
- Update to tools page and tooling

## General Announcements
- List of SPDX related meetings and presentations at Open Source Summit?
  - No actual list - maybe someone who is going can start one via email
    and others can add to it?
  - Bob to talk to Kate and Karen and try to share something more broadly
- Adrian: Has there been any work toward creating a Cryptographic Bill of
  Material (CBOM) profile for SPDX 3.0? Might be similar to Operations profile,
  but more on export side, but could create a new profile team that would
  make sense. Adrian to maybe look into starting this up
- Alfred: licensing in s/w is pretty straightforward, but h/w may have patents...
  - How do we deal with that in terms of the license fields

## Attendees - 22
- Gary Armstrong (FOSSID)
- Phil Odence
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Karen Bennet
- Brad Goldring (GTC)
- Jim Vitrano
- Michael Herzog
- Gary O'Neall
- Steve Winslow
- Richard Fontana
- Andreas Fehlner
- Alex Stewart (NI)
- Jilayne Lovejoy
- Helen Oakley
- Jeff H.
- Victor Lu
- Ria Farrell Schalnat
- Adrian Diglio (MSFT)
- Aditi Sharma
- Steven Carbno
- Alfred L Strauch
- Maximilian Huber

### Regrets
- Kate Stewart (on a plane)
