# SPDX General Meeting Minutes- 2024-08-01

## Administrative
- Approve meeting minutes from last month - https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/742
  - Approved

## Presentations
- Q+A on Apache Software Foundation's work with SPDX Identifiers - Roman Shaposhnik
- ASF having discussions to use SPDX identifiers instead of license headers.
- Some legal concern around substituting identifiers for license headers. 
- SPDX Identifiers makes it easier for scanning
- SPDX Identifier is a 1:1 replacement for license statement but less so for copyright notice or disclaimer
- Clarification: SPDX Identifiers are not intended to replace copyright notices or disclaimers
- No SPDX documentation suggests removing copyright notices in favor of SPDX Identifiers
- ASF headers: https://www.apache.org/legal/src-headers.html#headers
  - Confusing line for replacement is: "Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership."
- From https://spdx.dev/learn/handling-license-info/: "SPDX IDs are intending to express information about licenses. Copyright notices ‐ statements about who owns the copyright in a file or project ‐ are outside the scope of SPDX short-form IDs. Therefore, you should not remove or modify existing copyright notices in files when adding an SPDX ID."
- When kernel did this exercise - lots of variants of license expressions for the same license (6-700)
- Agreement for followup discussions with SPDX legal team
- Apache distribution artifacts: variation in how licenses are expressed there. Is there any encouragement from Apache for projects to produce SBOMs?
  - Historically have stayed away from binary artifacts

## Tech Team Report
- Working on OMG submission and preparing for OSI
  - OMG/ISO-related issues/PRs
    https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1009
- Resolving several documentation related issues
- Planning to get infrastructure changed to support international translations, have volunteers from Japan & China for 3.0

### AI / Dataset Profiles Team - Karen/Gopi
- Addressed all open 3.0.1 PRs
- AI/Dataset examples approved to merge
  - Resolved license relationship issue - using a workaround,
    as SPDXv3 RDF license definitions are not avaiable yet
    see: https://github.com/spdx/LicenseListPublisher/issues/183
- August discussion planned:  3.1 <new fields> for EU AI Act and Prompt and CWE
- More examples PR to be created
- Examples waiting for review
  - AI Profile https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/80
  - Dataset Profile https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/84
  - Lite Profile https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/91

### Build Profile Team - Brandon/Nisha
- No update

### Functional Safety Team - Nicole/Kate
- Working on how Test Plans & Evidence should be modeled, as well as relationships to these items.
- Determining artifacts to add and relationships to add

### Hardware Team - Kate/Steven/Alfred
- Discussion on how to model contstraints and actions. 
- Had a deep dive into how it's been handled in the past and what mistakes we may want to avoid going forward.

### Implementers Team - Rose
- Discussion around SPDX 3.0 implementation for tooling

### Licensing Profile Team - Jilayne/Steve
- A few minor organization/wording tweaks particularly from Arthit, no major developments

### Lite Profile Team - Ito/Ninjouji/Asaba/Kobota
- No update

### Operations Team - Matthew Crawford - sends apologies for not being present. 
- Met with Kate & Gary, and discussed approaches for modeling specific classes.
  Kate/Alexios have educated the team on mapping fields to the spec and we will work over the next few weeks on doing this. Our meetings are 1330 UTC on Fridays.

### Security Profile Team - Jeff/Rose
- No update

### Serialization Team - Joshua Watt
- No update

### Software as a Service Team – Gary
- No updates. Meetings are paused.

### Legal Team Update - Jilayne/Steve
- 3.25.0 release will be coming out soon, likely within next week
- Please review open issues from Jilayne's latest email

### Outreach Team - Alexios/Bob
- Working on the 3.0.1 release (web pages and PDF)
- Complete overhaul of Tools section on the website, new interface allowing filtering
- Help needed to add data, especially from open source tool maintainers
  - Open source tool list https://github.com/spdx/outreach/issues/78

## General Announcements
- Reach out if you will be at OSS EU - no formal conference but wanting to meet

## Attendees (25)
- Alexios Zavras
- Aditi Sharma
- Agustin Benito
- Alfred L Strauch
- Alin Jerpelea (SGC)
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Brad Goldring
- Gary O'Neall
- Ilan Schifter
- Jilayne Lovejoy
- Jim Vitrano
- Joshua Watt
- Karen Bennet
- Marcel Kurzmann
- Mary Hardy
- Maximilian Huber
- Mimi Flynn
- Nicole Pappler
- Olle E. Johansson
- Phil Odence, Black Duck Audits
- Robert Martin
- Roman Shaposhnik
- Rose Judge
- Steven Carbno
- Steve Winslow
