# SPDX General Meeting Minutes 2024-12-05

## Attendees

- Agustin Benito Bethencourt
- Alfred L Strauch
- Alin Jerpelea
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Gary O'Neall
- Ilan Schifter
- Jennie K
- Jilayne Lovejoy
- Jimmy Ahlberg
- Karen Bennet
- Kouki Hama
- Maria Krupl
- Matthew Crawford
- Mimi Flynn
- Norio Kobota
- Peter Viskup
- Steven Carbno
- Robert Martin
- Rose Judge
- Takashi Ninjouji
- Teddy Nyambe

## Presentation

- Takashi from Opensource Office, Toshiba, contributors to SPDX Lite Profile and also SBOM study group
- Slide <https://drive.google.com/file/d/14HZGYD7pSSWEmtaHZzWrzPhxCXaCnloJ/view>
- SBOM element comparsion sheet <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1SuGv1L3H_-Iq6dmH7DnjDgAa90LCRnoHB3DTfuWh0Jg/edit?gid=1936044844#gid=1936044844>
- Comparing CISA Baseline Attributes with NTIA Minimum Elements
  - SBOM Type, Component Cryptographic Hash, Component License, and Component Holder added
- Some Japanese companies use SPDX 2.2.1 (ISO) Lite with some extensions from SPDX 2.3
- OpenChain Telco SBOM Guide
  - Nokia releases OpenChain Telco SBOM validator
  - Effectively covers CISA Baseline Attributes and considered an industry neutral
- Telco SBOM vs SPDX Lite (Annex of SPDX 2.2+) vs SPDX 3.0 Lite Profile
- Attributes Comparison
- (US) CISA Baseline Attributes and (German) BSI TR-03183-2 are considered industry neutral and can work well
- Details should be taken care at the Relationship level, as there are different requirements -- refer to the comparison table.
- BSI TR-03183-2 Only Attributes, some need discussions
  - BSI's Filename of the component, may not be exactly the same as OpenChain Telco SBOM's PackageFileName or SPDX Software.File.name
  - BSI's Executable, Archive, and Structured properties may be covered by the SoftwarePackage.additionalPurpose but still need discussion about the mappings to SPDX software purpose entries
- SBOM format trend
  - SPDX, CycloneDX, and also ProtoBOM as an intermediate format
- VEX format trend
  - CSAF, SPDX, CycloneDX, OpenVEX
  - What about interexchangeability?
- Types of SBOM and VEX operations. Need to consider about types of operations that are best for information sharing. (separate, combine/embed, etc)
- SBOM and VEX sharing across SDLC (software development life cycle)
  - Need discussions on how to exchange information between stages
- Takeaways
  1) CISA Baseline Attributes likely cover your needs
  2) Telco SBOM and SDPX Lite simplify compliance with CISA Baseline Attributes
  3) Telco SBOM and SPDX Lite support your license compliance
- Further discussion items
  1) SPDX 3.0 Ecosytem
  2) Understanding Attribute Value and their usages. For example, SBOM Types, their meaning and when to use them.
  3) SBOM Types and corresponding SBOM contents. For the operationalization using SBOM.
- "OpenChain Conformant SBOM and OpenChain Conformant VEX"
- CISA "Maturity Levels" vs BSI "Levels of Details"
- Difference between CISA and BSI
- From chatbox
  - Norio: We discussed about SBOM types recently. And We should use build type for internal development, but in production environment, we should use deployed or runtime type.
  - Peter: EU CRA will require SBOM being maintained some presentation about ongoing work in Germany <https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2024-03/BSI%20Feb%202024%20SBOM-a-Rama%20508c.pdf>
  - Jimmy: Looking forward to discussing further in the SBOM study group. Some cases was considered internally where type could not easily be matched against the types provided as they are kind of hybrids.

## Team Updates

### 3.0.1/OMG/ISO Updates

- Gary updates about few technical issues which made the validation failed - expected to be resolved by this week
  - See <https://github.com/spdx/spec-parser/pull/159> and <https://github.com/spdx/spec-parser/pull/154>
- Robert updates about OMG - nearly final stage
- Gary updates on new branch structure and CI
  <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/develop/README.md#branch-structure>

### Licensing Profile

- No update

### Lite Profile

- No update

### Operations Team - Matthew/Marcel/Ummo

- We just did a deep dive session using the mermaid notation, assessing where each field should connect to.
  We still need to add the class descriptions in the official markdown notation, then will be ready for more community discussion.
  Aiming to align with the 3.1 release.
  At the members summit in California earlier this month, it was mentioned that patent information might be included in the Operations Profile.
  This will NOT be happening due to concerns in the community.

### AI / Dataset Profiles Team - Karen/Gopi

- Collaborative meeting held with OpenChain WG on AI BOM policy standard
- Continue to document and add PRs for fields to be added in 3.1
- Studying other AI use cases and how to document via SPDX such as
  <https://jbiomedsem.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/2041-1480-5-25>  

### Serialization

- No update

### Hardware

- Finalize the spec this week
- Discussing safety and supply chain this week

### Implementors / Gary

- Updates on implementation in different languages related to the spec

### Legal team update

- Working on latest release of license
- Now focus on documentation
  Please look at <https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/blob/main/DOCS/faq.md>
  and give feedback/make PR/issue

### Outreach / Robert

-

## General announcement

- Gary made PR to publish 3.0 machine-readable license list
  Please help review: <https://github.com/spdx/LicenseListPublisher/pull/187>

## Next meeting

- January General Meeting will not be in the first week because of the new year
- Rose will send out email about the new meeting time. Please keep eyes on that.
