2019-07-25

## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Jim Vitrano
  - John Horan
  - Mark Atwood
  - Mike Dolan
  - Paul Madick
  - Steve Winslow

## Agenda

1\) Follow-up conversation re: “SPDX-Copyright:” or related tags –
suggestion from REUSE folks and discussion in Github issue here:
<https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/122>

  - Based on SPDX legal team and tech team calls, current conversation
    is towards adding an appendix to the SPDX spec that recommends use
    of a subset of tags from the File Information section of the spec,
    prefixed by “SPDX-”. This would enable inclusion of various
    information in source file comments in a way that maps directly to
    existing SPDX fields.
  - For a file’s copyright notices, this would be:
    “SPDX-FileCopyrightText:”
  - But, this has not been formalized or adopted by SPDX, and there is
    not yet a draft appendix to add this to the spec. Don’t need to wait
    until a full new release of the spec, but would want to see a merged
    PR adding the appendix to the spec before making further informal
    recommendations.
  - Community participants who would like to see this added are welcome
    and invited to attend tech team calls as this is one of the topics
    under discussion, and to help with drafting an appendix.

2\) 3.7 planning Discussed “shepherding” an issue via being assignee.
Being “assigned” doesn’t mean you’re making the decision on whether or
not to add a license to the list. If \>= 3 people give a +1 and no
objections, then fine, easy to add. If complicated issues, then label as
“discuss on legal call” in Github issue thread. Call attendees agreed to
each go through the open issues and add comments before the next call.

3\) Specifically discussed open issues:

  - Commons Clause: not really either a license or an exception, but
    more of an additional restriction. Not clear that this is suitable
    to add either to the license list or to the exceptions list. Issue
    at: <https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/902>
  - UCL-1.0: appears to be just a small mod to OSL-3.0 but believe it is
    a substantively different license, and should likely be added since
    it is OSI-approved. Issue at:
    <https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/894>
