## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Mark Atwood
  - Paul Madick
  - John Horan
  - Brad Edmondson
  - Steve Winslow
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Nathan Willis
  - Mike Dolan
  - Steve Winslow

## Agenda

1\) Steve and Gary gave a great presentation on the general call prior
to this call. Slides can be found here:
<https://events.linuxfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/SPDX-Bridging-the-Compliance-Tooling-Gap.pdf>

2\) We have talked about some potential revisions to the Overview page
(https://spdx.org/spdx-license-list/license-list-overview) on the
calls/mailing list and we also discussed some related website updates at
the F2F a few weeks ago. Discussed some ideas related to this:

  - moving description of fields for SPDX License List currently on
    Overview page into Github repo to DOCS directory and call
    “SPDX-License-List-fields” or something like that
  - also move “license inclusion principles” section to its own markdown
    page in DOCS directory as well
  - make list of places that link to Overview page and what needs to
    change/be updated
  - then look back and reconsider use and content for Overview page and
    possible re-purpose or revise what’s remaining on the overview page
    and decide if any further changes need to be made or if we can
    remove that web page altogether

3\) Also discussed issue of “drive-by” license submissions and how to
better deal with that. Same issue happens on coding projects, but can
apply meritocracy approach and be okay with letting issues lie until
someone contributes to help make it happen or someone is interested.

  - In our case, might help in our CONTRIBUTING documentation to
    bifurcate review and acceptance/rejection from legal team versus
    preparing actual files. We also should try to route more of approval
    process into issue comments.
  - Some of text in CONTRIBUTING page is going to be moved to Submit New
    License tool to have hover-over text with instructions, so that will
    also help reduce the “wall of text’ on that page. Need to add that
    info to issue in tools Github issue.
  - Maybe we need another DOC in the repo with simple explanation of
    what the license list, what the legal team does, etc.?
  - README probably also needs updates
  - What about some guidance on timeline for review and hints towards
    participating in group helping to speed that up?
