## Attendees

  - John Horan
  - Mark Atwood
  - Steve Winslow
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Paul Madick
  - Brad Edmondson
  - Mike Dolan

## Agenda

The meeting again focused on reviewing and triaging issues that were
tagged for consideration as part of the 3.6 release milestone. Some
issues were resolved as noted in the relevant GitHub issue threads. 3
issues remained open to finalize, and following those the 3.6 release
will be tagged and pushed.

The attendees briefly discussed the Polyform Project, specifically about
the possibility of using “PF-“ prefix for Polyform licenses should
certain of the combinations be predominant, and not allocating tags at
this time that start with “PF-“ prefix for other licenses. May need to
consider what’s reasonable in terms of exponential combination of
options, as well how “substantially open source” or “source available”
entries on the SPDX list should be.

The attendees discussed requests to have SPDX itself categorize licenses
as permissive, etc., or track obligations. The Legal Team consensus is
that SPDX’s role is “just the facts” and is focused on identifying and
enabling conversations about licensing, to help people talk about
licenses consistently. Approaches for e.g. categorizing licenses,
providing recommendations or interpretation of obligations, etc. can be
useful but should be handled in separate community efforts. Those
community efforts would ideally make use of SPDX short-form license
identifiers.

There was also a brief discussion, following from the earlier tech team
call, about the possibility of adding something like PROPRIETARY /
CLOSED, PUBLIC-DOMAIN, etc. as identifiers. If so, this would be as part
of the spec itself, not as part of license list (since there would not
be particular license texts to match on). Suggest tech / legal joint
call to discuss whether this would be a helpful and appropriate use
case.
