## Attendees

  - John Horan
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Jim Vitrano
  - Kyle Mitchell
  - Mike Dolan
  - Steve Winslow

## Agenda

The meeting focused on reviewing and triaging issues that were tagged
for consideration as part of the 3.6 release milestone. Some issues were
resolved and closed; some were moved to 3.7 release given the limited
time before 3.6 release at end of month; and some remain open, pending
final review of PRs / creation of new PRs in a couple of instances.
Specific notes on many of the resolutions can be seen in the particular
issue threads on GitHub; and those issues that currently remain open for
3.6 can be found at
<https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%223.6+release%22>

The team also briefly discussed recent updates to the license inclusion
principles, which can be seen at
<https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/blob/master/DOCS/license-inclusion-principles.md>.
Jilayne noted that the team may continue to iterate on the inclusion
principles in accordance with discussions on prior legal team calls.

Since the 3.6 release is coming up at the end of the month, any
newly-submitted requests will be considered as part of 3.7. The next
legal team call will be on Thursday, June 27, and will focus on any
last-minute matters needed to get 3.6 out the door. The team will focus
on several longstanding prior requests for 3.7 during the first legal
team call in July.
