## Attendees

  - Bradlee Edmondson
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Alexios Zavras
  - Steve Winslow
  - Karen Copenhaver
  - Dennis Clark
  - Matija
  - Trevor
  - Richard Fontana
  - Mike Dolan
  - Paul Madick
  - Bradley Kuhn
  - John Sullivan
  - Philippe Ombredanne
  - Mark Gisi
  - Alan Tse

NOTE: had to use alternative dial-in due to number limit on the regular
one

## Agenda

1\) only / or later clarification and proposal:

  - we discussed our last proposal (which was summarized here:
    <https://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/only-operator-proposal>) with
    Richard Stallman and John Sullivan as to concerns the FSF, as
    steward of the GNU licenses. As a result, we came up with the
    following modified proposal:

**Proposal:**

SPDX will incorporate modifiers (as described below) to be used with
license identifiers (and expressions). The guidance from SPDX as to the
use of the modifiers will be as follows:

1.  The modifiers can be used with any license identifier and we
    encourage people to use them where doing so provides clarity as
    needed.
2.  Specifically, with the GNU family of licenses, you MUST use one of
    the modifiers; use of the plain license identifier (e.g., “GPL-2.0”)
    will be considered an invalid license expression going forward.

GNU family of licenses = all versions of GPL, LGPL, AGPL, FDL (SPDX will
list all license identifiers to be clear)

Modifiers: There are two sets listed: one that involves a single
character (to be consistent with existing +) and one that is more
human-readable:

  - \+ = "or later” - same meaning as now
  - \# = "only" - this will be a new modifier to indicate ‘this version
    only’. Need further input as to one character configuration, if
    needed
  - ? = “unclear version” - this will be a new modifier to indicate
    there is a lack of clarity as to the license version regarding if
    any version, or later, or only applies, e.g., I found the text of
    GPLv2, but I’m not sure if it’s “only “ or “or later” because there
    is no other information. Need further input on the exact word to use
    here, i.e, “unclear” “maybe” “ambiguous"

**Discussion on call:**

  - discussion about required use of operator for GNU licenses and how
    to implement "invalidity":
      - Philippe: ok to have a warning when bare identifier is ok, but
        an error is a problem b/c that has been practice now for years

don’t want to gate on trying to make everything right now, license
identifier has already been used for many years; when doing validation
of license expression - and have just GPL-2.0, this should not be a
validation error, but a warning so it doesn’t stop of flow of process

  -   - Kate: could do transition for a year and then make it an error.
        also have factor of license list version - so can say for this
        point forward
      - Philippe: not everyone may be tracking which version of license
        list they are using
      - Trevor: could just make it a warning, don’t have to decide when
        to have it an error, but can do in future
      - John: would want to see timeline for this transition
      - Mark wants to version the list and be able to continue to use
        2.0 version until can use new version as he sees fit

  - Gary: issue with using \# in tag value. Trevor: might be easier to
    use words. Bradley agreed.

<!-- end list -->

  - Dennis: under what circumstance would I declare / use GPL-2.0?
  - Kate: commented on wide range of how people declare GPL applies as
    she’s seen in kernel
  - Mark: why not be no assertion
  - J: should GPL-2.0? be used in “concluded field” ever?
  - Kate: we have concluded and detected - should we say that ? can only
    be used in detected fields?
  - Alexios: if don’t have + or only, then it’s unqualified and unclear
  - Mark: on first round, we took real world examples - we should have
    very clear source code examples; Mark to send out examples from when
    we did operators to begin with
  - Bradley: might not always use it in context of SPDX, might want to
    have that ambiguity; he had assumed there were clear conclusions
  - Matija: what if someone writes code and says, “this is under GPL”.
    someone else forks it and copies into difference project with GPLv2
  - Paul: what if we put all three on license list, would that fix the
    issue? (asks FSF)
  - John: idea of ? is to satisfy what others have raised not what FSF
    has raised
  - Bradley: his concern, this seems clean, but problem is that 2.0 did
    mean only, so ...
  - Mark: 2.0 means - what the text say
