March 18, 2014

## Attendees

  - Gary Oâ€™Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Michael Herzog
  - Mark Gisi
  - Scott Sterling
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Kate Stewart
  - Kirsten Newcomer

## Agenda

  - Google Summer of Code
  - External id proposal
  - Model updates

## Logistics for Linux Collab Summit

  - Tuesday start at 9
  - Will be a working session.
  - Lunch - don't really have a count, - will play it by ear
  - Expectation around 10 people, but don't have a firm count
  - Jack will send out an email update prior to Tuesday
  - Need to update tool on the website
      - Current website is broken - has been escalated to Mike
      - Could use git to store the download and link from the main
        website - Gary will investigate
      - Could use Wiki to store the files - decided not to do this due
        to security concerns
      - Could point to the existing Maven repository which has a copy of
        the tools binaries

## Google summer of Code

  - Being discussed in the biz team - everyone welcome to join the call
  - Proposals will be posted to the spdx-tech list
  - 6 students expressed interest so far
  - Matt is taking the lead on organizing
  - Matt and Gary are mentors
  - Selection process TBD - we are a sub project of the Linux
    Foundation, need to coordinate
  - Philippe has been through this under the Eclipse foundation, has
    been providing advice to Matt, Gary, others
  - Michael gave a good overview of GSoC
      - Lots of out of country interest/participation
      - Google provides support, primarily offline resources

## External IDs for Packages

  - Email thread on tech list -
  - Mitre / CPE one suggestion for unique package IDs
  - ISO IEC xxxx another suggestion
  - Several different existing mechanisms
      - Maven (GAV)
      - Ruby Gems
      - Nuget.org
      - Debian.org
      - Github
      - code.google.com
      - sourceforge
  - Proposal to have an external ID to reference the above examples
  - This would be a property of the SPDX Element

## Updated Model

  - Wiki page updated at
    <http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/SPDX_RDF_Vocabularies_and_Terms/DRAFT/2.0/Terms>
  - Reviewed compatibilities/incompat. with 1.2
  - Discussed some of the model incompatibilities documented on the Wiki
  - VerificationCode - Gary will propose a solution (add a name property
    to the element and create a verification code algorithm based on the
    name and checksumvalues)

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
