May 20, 2014

## Attendees

  - Bill Schineller
  - Kate Stewart
  - Scott Sterling
  - Sameer Ahmed
  - Mark Gisi

## Agenda

  - License Syntax
  - Open Bugs Review

## License Syntax

  - Mark Gisi will start writing a draft spec in Google Docs
  - Will be reviewed by legal team
  - Kate and Gary will be added for review
  - Bug 591 will be addressed in the spec

## Open Bugs Review

  - Bug 591 - covered by Mark G.
  - Bug 878 - Bill to work with Jack on this, want to get it in soon.
  - Bug 944 - Kate will make proposal to extend FileType for CRUFT and
    IMAGE for 6.2.1.
      - Mark thinking about reopening whether .html should be considered
        as SOURCE (as is in 1.2).
      - Some disagreement, so putting it into mull, and if someone feels
        strongly - they need to open a bug.
  - Bug 978 - Enumerated by the Relationship Types should be able to
    handle this.
      - Sameer - confirming that buildfarm and distributionartifact from
        last week are being used today and will be using. Bill will
        write up the spec proposal.
  - Bug 980 - Pushing off to later rev. We’re missing a strong sponsor
    and advocate to push this through, so moving to later release. Bill
    updated description.

<!-- end list -->

  - Kate: Do we want to extend spec on SHA’s to permit optional
    inclusion of SHA256, MD5, and other common ones? Sameer points we
    need to keep standard SHA1 as manditory. Everyone generally agrees
    that specifying the optional ones is a good idea. ACTION: Kate to
    add bug and write up proposal.

<!-- end list -->

  - Bug 1000 - Snippet proposal in Merged\_Model\_Proposal should be
    able to handle this. Bill edited the title to reflect. Assigning to
    Gary.
  - Bug 1010 - Unify Entity types and Property Descriptions - Assigning
    to Kate (review, articulate)

<!-- end list -->

  - Bug 1035 - Agree need to revisit with latest latest enumeration, -
    Assigning to Bill

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
