April 1, 2014

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Michael Herzog
  - Mark Gisi
  - Scott Sterling
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Sameer Ahmed
  - Jeff Luszcz,
  - Matt Germonprez
  - Kate Stewart
  - Kirsten Newcomer

## Agenda

  - Review Collab Summit Results

## Review Collab Summit Results

  - Need to add a link to Jack's instance diagrams presented at Collab
    Summit. Will put in the Use Case wiki page for the use cases it
    uses.
  - Need to capture the Wind River file relationships in the minutes

## External SPDX element reference

  - Bill reviewed a writeup on the proposal (posted at XXX)
      - Decided that the uniqueness of the SPDX document name is
        required, but the exact format is not specified (e.g. they do
        not have to use the GUID).
      - Suggest best practice for using GUID's as a way of guarenteeing
        uniqueness
      - Suggest all docs end with .spdx (but not required)

## Relationships and Usage

  - Are the current list of relationships and usage defined? - Not yet
  - Would like to make the relationships symmetric
      - Modifies and MofiedBy
  - Discussion of generatedFrom - is it the same as DerivedFrom? - not
    really, generatedFrom is more of a compiler use case. Could we use
    builtFrom? Decided to stay away from the term derived.
  - Reviewed Bill's instance diagram:
      - builtFrom
      - artifactOf
      - patchOf
      - upstreamBinary
      - exploded - don't like the term in general, consider "burst"
      - expanded
  - Debian has a policy manual that describes relationships
      - Suggestion to use the Debian term if it works
  - We should allow for user defined relationships
  - Sameer, Gary and BIll will write up one line descriptions for
    current relationship and usage proposals

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
