June 24, 2014

## Attendees

  - Bill Schineller
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Scott Sterling
  - Balaji Viswanathan

## Agenda

  - Follow-up on relationship and usage types
  - GSoC Update
  - RDF Terms Documentation
  - Model validation

## Relationship and Usage type documentation

  - Bill and Gary updated online spreadsheet
  - Requesting input from Jack on the usageType\_ReferenceImplementation
  - Scott will review as well
  - Should we document what terms are replaced by a relationship (e.g.
    "hasFile")
      - Yes - Bill adding a column to the spreadsheet

## GSoC Update

  - Mid-terms eval due this week - pls. provide feedback either
    privately to the mentors or to the dist. list

## RDF Terms Documentation

  - First a bit of status - As I was working on updating the RDF
    documentation (you can find the 1.2 version at spdx.org/rdf/terms),
    I found that the Ruby based tools that generate the HTML pages do
    not seem to work on a new laptop I recently migrated to. I suspect
    this is due to a change in some of the dependent libraries, but I
    have not had a chance to debug.
  - Should we change how we manage and document the RDF/XML terms?
  - Alternatives
      - A: Continue maintaining the documentation as a master HTML file
        which generates the web pages, the text used in the
        specification appendix + generates OWL schemas for the web
        sites. This would require fixing the Ruby issues. It would be
        really really helpful if someone with more Ruby expertise than
        myself (which turns out to be a pretty large population) could
        help.
      - B: Just maintain a straight HTML page of the terms and drop the
        Ruby tools generation. We would lose the schema files.
      - C: Move to Protégé as the master for storing and maintaining the
        terms. The web version (http://webprotege.stanford.edu/) has
        some collaboration features and the desktop version can be used
        to output various formats. Bill has already done some good work
        investigating this approach. To output documentation there are a
        few alternatives:
          - C1: Use the existing owldoc plugin to generate the
            documentation for the web and just put a link in the
            specification documentation to the website. Attached is an
            example using a different project I just pulled down from
            Protégé.
          - C2: Write a custom plugin to Protégé to output the
            documentation for the website and specification.
          - C3: Use Protégé to maintain the terms, but manually create
            the HTML and documentation pages (option B above)
  - No one has Ruby expertise to help with option A
  - Is option C1 OK?
      - The web would be OK if the audience is the RDF familiar
      - Likely only RDF folks are visiting the website
      - Would lose the documentation appendix
      - Would the links line up with the new documentation? (e.g.
        spdx.org/rdf/terms\#SpdxDocument would link to the class
        definition)
  - Leaning towards option C1, but would like broader review and
    feedback
  - Gary will investigate the links questions
  - Follow-up with Kate on the specification - if we need the terms
    defined inline or if a reference to a web page is OK.

## Model validation

  - Concern that we may not have the details thought out for external
    references and relationship
  - Validate relationship model with a real model
  - Create an actual SPDX document with an external reference and
    relationship - Gary and Bill will write up an example

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
