September 9, 2014

## Attendees

  - Gary O'Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Scott Sterling
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Kate Stewart
  - Mark Gisi
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Kirsten Newcomer

## Agenda

  - Decide on file type/relationship type/usage type

## Usage Type/File Type

  - Marketing issue - "Usage" no longer there
      - In reality, it is covered by relationship
      - Not a 1:1 mapping of usage to relationshiptypes - so we really
        shouldn't change the name of relationshipType
      - Agree that it could solved by documentation - need to make usage
        clear.
          - Will be in the relationshipType definition.
          - All relationship types which were formerly usage types
            should have "used" in the description
          - Will also be in the documentation for the relationship types
            specifically. We can also write an examples document on how
            usage is documented in relationship types \[Jack\]
  - Review of the spreadsheet definitions:
    <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13MuhIhmdSx5e9B7OCuz_CUoYRtAu-WU08SbIMlym5Xc/edit#gid=585252373>
      - Cursory review looks OK with the possible exception usage (see
        above)
      - Suggestion to update static link relationship type -
  - Agree that the usage should be explainable only by the
    relationshipType (should not require a file type).
  - Agree to remove usageType\_Source - prefer generatedFrom and
    generates
      - Suggestion to add more less obvious examples - e.g. YACC grammar
        generating a source file
  - Should we get rid of executable? We can use generated from between
    the executable and the package it originates with.
  - Reviewed all usageTypes in the spreadsheet. Green indicates it is
    fine, red indicates it is removed, and yellow indicates it is either
    postponed or needs more work.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
