October 10, 2014

## Attendees

  - Gary O'Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kate Stewart
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Scott Sterling

## Agenda

  - Schedule for 2.0
  - External document references
  - Support for multiple checksum types

## Schedule for 2.0

  - Key Dates:
      - November 14: SPDX 2.0 Draft complete, distributed for internal
        review/comment (internal to business, legal and technical
        committees)
      - Dec 1. Deadline for feedback
      - Dec. 1-17 incorporate feedback
      - Dec. 18 SPDX 2.0 release candidate for tools implementation and
        release to general mailing list
      - Dec 19th: Tool Implementation Kickoff
      - Feb. 18-20 Collab Summit - Tools implemented, Plug-and-Play
        event to test tool interoperability
          - compare SPDX 2.0 output of different tools for
            compatibility/consistency
          - supply chain example. Upstream SPDX consumed by downstream
            SPDX.
  - Won't make the current plan of LInuxCon Europe (which is next week)
  - Draft ready for Linux Open in December - either the first or 15th
      - Kate will be offline 3 weeks last part of Nov through Dec 1
      - Kate will publish draft before going offline - November 14th
      - Dec 1. - deadline for feedback
      - First 1/2 December gather feedback
      - Target December 18th for release candidate 1 (RC1) - ready for
        tools implementation
  - Remaining work - Kate will publish a list
      - Would like to get additional checksums
      - License identifiers in the code as an appendix
      - License Expressions Syntax
          - Jack will publish a draft for this section
  - Tools to be implemented by LinuxCon
      - Tools demo including use cases - supply chain examples
      - Bake-off/Plug-n-play/interoperability tests between tools
  - Migration from 1.0 to 2.0
      - Should the business team take on the migration collateral?
      - Highlights of 2.0 on the 18th
      - Migration details and "what's new in SPDX 2.0" papers should be
        published soon after the 18th.

## External document references

  - Reviewed email proposal
  - Kate will do a more detailed review and email any changes
  - Gary will update the proposal to include an SPDX default namespace
    for those without their own creator website
  - We agreed not to implement the storage of SPDX documents now
      - We will discuss this at LinuxCon
      - we will add a page to describe the use of the document URIs to
        the SPDX web page that may be referenced from the default spdx
        namespace

## Additional Checksum Types

  - Bruno proposed additional types
      - SHA-256
  - cardinality would be changed to 1 or more (from 1)
  - Do we also allow for other types to be used in the verification code
    (in addition to using the checksum types for the file checksums)?
  - Mandatory sha1, others are optional
  - Verification code would also be a mandatory sha1 with optional other
  - Should we change the mandatory from sha1 to sha256?
      - sha1 has been proven vulnerable
      - sha1 would be compatible with 1.2
      - vulnerability would not be too severe for our use cases

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
