## SPDX Legal Team Minutes, July 2, 2020

### Attending
* Vicky Brasseur
* John Horan
* Paul Madick
* Steve Winslow
* Brad Goldring

### Agenda

For the agenda we will look briefly at:

1. PR #1048 -- adding the -invariants / -no-invariants options for GFDL licenses: https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/pull/1048
2. Issue #931 -- discuss questions raised by John regarding translations of CC licenses: https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/931
3. Issue #1052 -- discuss clarifying documentation for license workflow process: https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1052

After that, we will review status updates on the various open issues for 3.10.

### Notes

Discussion:

PR 1048
-- adding the -invariants / -no-invariants options for GFDL licenses:https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/pull/1048
-- merge approved

Issue #931 -- discuss questions raised by John regarding translations of CC licenses:https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/931

John has noticed a potential discrepancy in the text. May not be a straight translation? For instance, the sections in English & German don't line up, neither do the number of sentences per section.

Steve: 3.0 CC license translations aren't just straight translations, but potential changes to align w/country's local laws. Potentially what's going on here?

John will open a PR then folks can review & share potential concerns there. Will use the official CC Austrian text for that license:

https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/at/legalcode
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/at/legalcode

Issue #1052 -- discuss clarifying documentation for license workflow process:https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1052

Vicky had had some earlier questions.

Steve: Prefers to use VSCode rather than online GH editor.
2 docs in the process, each with its own directory:
    - .xml file with the content and formatting etc. (markup)
    - .txt file with plain text, used to vet the content.

Steve also prefers to start with the .txt file, then move on to the .xml file.

Our GSOC one or two years ago included a GUI editor.

Can be helpful to find an existing .xml file that seems close in structure to the new license and edit that -- helps to identify, place and fill in the various headers, tags and the like.

- Name of .xml must == the license identifier (licenseId).
- OSI approved: true/false (isOsiApproved)
- name: full name
- listVersionAdded: targeted release version (e.g., 3.10).
- crossRefs: URLs to license text (now or historically) or perhaps source code where license has been used.  Once assigned, these URLs remain even if the URL becomes invalid.
- notes: e.g, summarize purpose, distinguish from other licenses etc.  Optional.
- Separate paragraphs wrapped: <p></p>
- Ordered lists, sections etc.: wrapped in <list><item><bullet></bullet></item></list> tags (can be multi-level, e.g., 1.a(ii)(A))
- <alt match=...> tags to express alternative text (using regular expressions).

Steve: One benefit of using your local editor.IDE is that you can run the tests locally.  Need Java installed to run the tests. 'make validate-canonical-match'

make validate-canonical-match

./test-one-license [identifier] ==> will test just that named license.

License list publisher tool also checks whether new license matches an existing license: a dedupe check.
- Occasionally we expect 2+ licenses to have the same text (e.g., options).  Repo has file `expected-warnings` identifying text we expect to match existing license -- prevents new license from being flagged as an error.

Once PR has been merged, OK to use the license even if it has not yet appeared on the list (i.e., actual release may be slightly later).

This completes the substance of today's call.
