SPDX Legal Team Minutes, November 19, 2020

## Attending
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Paul Madick
* Jim Vitrano
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

For today's agenda, this will be the last meeting before the 3.11 release next week, so we will be reviewing and finalizing the submissions for 3.11 and likely moving the remainder to 3.12. The list of open issues for 3.11 can be seen at https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%223.11+release%22

## Minutes

3.11 release to go out next week

Issue 995 -- PR already opened.  License steward (MariaDB) contacted, no reply yet.  Jilayne followed up with them, nothing yet.  We plan to merge tomorrow afternoon if no reply received by then.

Issue 1006 -- awaiting reply, will move to 3.12 if no reply by tomorrow.

Issue 1026 -- PR created.  Several edits requested this morning; one <crossRefs> should suffice; we'll then merge.

Issue 1047 -- looks like Creative Commons derivative.  Use in the wild is unclear; inclined to move to 3.12 to enable reply from steward.

Issue 1054 -- Open question re nesting and interplay with license list publisher.  Moving this to 3.12.

Issue 1056 -- basically 2nd ANTLR license.  PR added, tests passed.  Straightforward, agree to merge.

Issue 1057 -- 2 versions of LGPL-2.1.  Awaiting response to comments re minor edits.  Expect will be taken care of.

Issue 1060 -- Project (libgd) seems to have fair amount of use, but open to some dispute.  License appears distinctive.

Question raised: re characterization of license (e.g., permissive), other factors re potential approval.
  * Steve: SPDX does not so characterize, analysis focuses on SPDX stated factors.
  * Karsten: consumer viewpoint raises question of ability to interpret based solely on license IDs from codebase scan.
  * Steve: Inclusion rules have naturally evolved over time.  For this submission: use seems relatively substantial despite fact that it's specific to libgd.
  * Paul: SPDX license list benefits include adding agreed-upon clarity to identification of the multitude of licenses in the wild.
  * Karsten: sees this as a corner case.
  * Paul: unique open-source licenses with usage in the wild should be added to the list.  If no applicable SPDX template already exists, we want to add to the list.

Since we haven't vetted against existing licenses on list, we'll bump to 3.12 for vetting.

Issue 1064 -- HTML Tidy.  Similar to zlib license with some added language.  PR supplemented 30 minutes ago or so, waiting for Travis to move this to front of queue.

Issue 1072 -- pass for now, awaiting comments.

Issue 1075 -- custom permissive sort of license.  We'll mark as accepted, will try to finish in time for 3.11, if not, bump to 3.12.

Issue 1076 -- technical issue, waiting for tool-related input from Gary.  Bump to 3.12 if no reply in time.

Issue 1082 -- waiting for comment from Jilayne, bumped to 3.12.

Issue 1085: Assigned to Alexios, will follow-up for updates.
