SPDX Legal Team Minutes, December 17, 2020

## Attending
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Paul Madick
* Jim Vitrano
* Steve Winslow

Agenda:
I expect that today's meeting will be short, as a lot of people are finishing up end-of-year matters. We'll focus on any questions or discussion topics that folks are running into as you're working on issues for 3.12.

Notes:

looked at unassigned issues:
* #1096 clarification of inclusion principles re: things that are not really licenses
  * Suggestion from Jim: "The submitted license is a statement that confers actual rights to use, copy, modify, or redistribute content.  Additional indications of copyright or licensing status are not licenses."
  * For now, holding off on modifying inclusion principles; don't want to tweak them frequently
* #1113: Some digging to be done to make sure if it is still in use followed by checking if it satisfies License Inclusion Principles and it might be added as an Exception or a new License.  - Karsten to take
* #1121: Looks similar to #1113 with different submitter. - Karsten to take
* #1125: Steve sir to take.
* #1130 (syncfusion): This appears to be company's custom license and doesn't warrant inclusion on the license list. Rejected.
* #1134: doesn't seem to be used wildly. If the license is not used on a major scale and is higher on other points, we might consider the request to add it to the spdx license list.
* #1136 (NAIST): Steve self-assigned as he had some context of the license.
* #1155: Steve took it.
* #1111: By John Horan. Some confusion regarding "no longer live" and BSD clause variants.

Place for License Matching Guideline: We have several copies of the guidelines. Rather than having a static website for the guideline, there can either be a doc or reference to file in the License List repo. To be discussed in lengths with the tech team as it is closer to the spec.

* Steve to send invite for January 7 for recurring 2021 invite
