SPDX Legal Team Minutes, November 5, 2020

## Attending
* Mark Atwood
* Mark Baushke
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Emmanuel Tournier
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

For today's agenda, we'll be reviewing the open license list requests and PRs that are tagged for 3.11.

## Minutes

https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%223.11+release%22

* 1059 (OCB) - Rejected: agreed not to add to list, closing
* 1064 (JTIDY) - Accepted: We do have some active license inclusion in some commercial and community projects. Seems similar to `Zlib` license though, but different enough that matching guidelines and markup wouldn't accommodate it. This license has an additional permissions and different disclaimers wrt the "libpng-2.0" license which can be treated as a significant difference.
* Wix: agreed not to add
* 1074 (BUSL-1.1) - Pending Was previously discussed to add the license, keeping it open for comment by MariaDB for any conflicting comment (if any).
* 1047 (PPL) - Pending: Base of the license is a non-commercial Creative Commons License. Very handful of projects have referenced it. Also, It doesn't seem to have inclusion in projects that are broader in scope.
* ANTLR: Steve to address
* 1057 (LGPL-2.1 markup): Was awaiting response. After a modification, it can be included.
* 1086 (xenomai-exception-2.0) - Rejected: Usage is limited. Xenomai is the only one using it (yet).

* Also discussed:
  * Tool from Mark Atwood - compute license diff applying matching guidelines - https://github.com/jpeddicord/askalono
  * should add details about License Inclusion Principles to online license submission tool - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/252
