SPDX AI team minutes,  April 13, 2022

Attendees:
   * Kate Stewart
   * Karen Bennet
   * Micheal Hind
   * Gopi Krishnan Rajbahadur

Agenda:
   * New member introduction
   * Going over the AI BOM doc - karen's updates

Notes:

1. Karen updated country specific AI standards and testing (designing?)  AI softwares
2. Updated example for GAPs
3. Adding build date and deploy date seperately for AI BOM
4. Need to decide optional vs mandatory fields
5. Different items (particulalrly when an IEEE standard was released) will be added to the standard compliance
6. Should we consider including a flag to indicate if you are interacting with a Human or a machine
7. How to track lineatge needs to be reviewed and determined.
8. Adding a declared and concluded license field for licenses
9. Add built and created date -- Later figure out the relationship with the data sources
10. Data collection process field being added
11.  Transformations applied field being recorded
12. Training data being associated with model documentation
13. TODO: Update the Checksum Why
14. Need to discuss how to handle sensitive data types -- What are the additional details we might need to add
15. Articulating data types instead of data fusion ?
16. context associated with data types vs data types needs to be captured?
18. Add more specific examples to data fusion
19 Maybe called data types as context? fields? categories?
20. Add personal information present or absent field? --PII might be data context specific--so cannot be defined (so should not be a new row?)
