# SPDX AI  team minutes,  June 22, 2022

## Attendees

* Kate
* Gopi
* Michael
* Karen

## Regrets

* Derek
    
## Agenda

* Review of factsheets, datasheets, and models

## Notes

* See: analysis of https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VZ9OX58G6jSjRrrd7l9tA-aJ3IoewjOEQhC6QT7tVzU/edit?usp=sharing
    * Discussion on characteristics of development team,  seems to be the same as Karen was going at with Diversity.   Agreement that consider a later version.   It's too unclear how to measure diversity and skills of team.   Not for "required set" of 1.0 profile.
    * Agreement that using to "tested-by" relationship for some of the open areas. 
    * Should we have "known biases" - not sure how to operationalize.    Known biases and remediation  - ok to use as an intial text field (string).   Karen & Michael agree.
    * Handling Security Mitigations,  not sure if we want to include it in minimum.   Possibly just look at seeing what the defects profile is covering in some way.  
* 2 big issues - fairness & explanation of decisions.    Explanation of decisions should be an field. 
    * Bring this work into SBOM,  here's a propsal for this,  and leverage experience of how to bring it in. 
    Key is to make it a "proposal" -- Avoid research questions.
    * Concretely ask,  evealuation question.  Has been asked in https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.08293.pdf.  IEEE has had a survey from pactitioners, what need to document. 
    * Challenge of measuring if "good" or "bad" for standards.    Smell test, and then more formal?
    * Best effort proposal.  
* Discussion of trained compilers (feedback) and IP perspective.   Different model for printers.   Libraries may be similar to compilers.   This is a long way off, probably lingering IP in model.  ML systems may be subject to this.   Group concensus - topic for grad student, not here
    * TMForum (telco) - Michael - Rob Klaxton (British Telecom)   Modeling of data. 
    * Kate at OpenUK talk on SBOM
    * Automotive folk - reach out / Conference
    * Oportunistic Open Source Conferences.

## Action items

* AI: Kate - Mailing list creation - DONE
* AI: Kate & Karen to share presentation for FinanceForum on July 6