# SPDX AI Team Meeting 2024-01-31@3pm ET (new time)

## Attendees
* Karen Bennet (LF, IEEE, ISO)
* Ambarish Gurjar (Indiana University)
* Jim Hutchison (Qualcomm)
* Helen Oakley (SAP)
* Rhea Anthony (SAP)
* Hasan Yasar (CMU)
* Mark Atwood (Amazon)
* Arthit Suriyawongkul (Trinity College Dublin)
* Joseph Silvia (Medical Device)
* Victor Lu (Consultant)
* Jay White (Microsoft)

## Agenda
* Welcome New Members 
* Update on RC2 Punch List - Gopi
* Update on Support Level for AI and Dataset? - Gopi
* Next week : Discuss requirements for 3.1 
  * Question on when will https://lists.spdx.org/g/spdx-operations be launched to discuss consuming use cases of AI-BOM as part of bunsess operations (as this would also help identifying important updates in subsequent versions): to follow-up when Kate S. is back
* Fosdem Feb 4 -  Live streaming available 
* Encourage you to join spdx-ai slack channel
* Round Table 
  * EU AI act may demand the ability of internet resources to forbid use for as training data. That logically will need the tags to go into robots.txt, into .well-known/, into tags in REUSE metadata, and into tags inline with datasets.  Amazon has hope that SPDX can step up and step into that space.

## Notes
* New Members:
  * Mark Atwood (Amazon) - In open source program office - Amazon 
  * Hasan Yasar (CMU) - https://mse.s3d.cmu.edu/facstaff/faculty1/core-faculty/yasar-hasan.html
* Open SSF AI/ML WG Update - Jay indicated that Feb 5 meeting with have Christina Bassis at MITRE with a talk about Threats and Attacks, and that OpenSSF AI and Dataset WG plans to discusss signing training model/dataset in future meeting.
* Per the group's disuccsion and decision: Add to Punch List  Support Level field for both AI and Dataset profiles - Karen
* Next week's topic:  What's next in SBOM 3.1: Joseph, Hasan. Mark  and Arthit to prepare information for discussion ofrequirements for 3.1 ; EU AI Act  Mark mentioned that may demand the ability of internet resources to forbid use for as training data. That logically will need the tags to go into robots.txt, into .well-known/, into tags in REUSE metadata, and into tags inline with datasets.  Amazon has hope that SPDX can step up and step into that space.
* Victor kindly offered to gather informaiton from other LF WGs and provide bridge information to us.  He mentioned in today's meeting about Open_SSF SBOM everywhere and their focus on a landscape 
* Ask Kat  when will https://lists.spdx.org/g/spdx-operations be launched,  how to better understanding sBOM lifecycle documentation and where it can be found.
* Interesting Info: For AI, EU and US also trying to harmonize the terminology: https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/eu-us-terminology-and-taxonomy-artificial-intelligence
* Encourage everyone join spdx-ai slack channel and we can share other information and interesting news.
