# SPDX AI Team Meeting 2024-01-24@3pm ET (new time)

## Attendees
* Matthew Crawford (Arm)
* Stefana Simion (Arm)
* Kate Stewart (LF)
* Victor Lu (Consultant)
* Helen Oakley (SAP)
* Gopi (Huawei)
* Arthit Suriyawongkul (Trinity College Dublin)
* Joseph Silvia (Medical Device)
* Ambaris Gurjar (Indiana University)
* Andreas Fehlner (ONNX)
* Jay White (Conflict but lurking in the notes.)

## Agenda
* Welcome New Members
* Update on PunchList for SPDX 3.0 - Gopi
* SPDX AI & Dataset Profile for 3.1 - Altaz & Daniel (if available)
* NIST has issued a formal Request for Information (RFI) s under EO 14110 on Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence. Comments are due February 2, 2024.
* Round Table
* Update: Fix issue with being able to approve minutes PRs, this is completed now
* Come join SPDX <new> Slack channel: https://join.slack.com/t/spdx-sbom/shared_invite/zt-29wnpgtfb-t00cAJnQWyUc9~xaAvwF1A

## Notes

### New people
* Stefana joining from ARM's AI team.  Leading AI team.
* Andreas - ONNX Machine Learning - looking to align standards, and standards.
 
### Punchlist for 3.0
* Spoke to CIACT group in China.   Have 5 people wanting to contribute to SPDX.
  * Looking forward to working group call in Asia.
  * They did a survey, and Gopi will try to share.
  * Gopi - On vacation from Feb 4 - Feb 27
  * Maybe we want to add support status

### SPDX 3.0+

#### Support Status/Level
* Do we want to include **SupportStatus** for models & datasets?
* Looking at including this as a core property.   Would it be used for AI & Data.  We have validUntil right now, but no indication of level of support. 
* Support categories -  want to add in an "unsupported"/"no support available", supported, limited support, end-of-support, development
* Field Name: **SupportLevel** (discussed  Accountablity / Responsibility  - take perspecitive of Supplier declares what support is available.)
* Entries
  * Development
  * Support
  * LimitedSupport
  * EndOfSupport (aka End of Life)
  * NoSupport (Use as Is)
  * NoAssertion **default of nothing specified**
* Recommendation is to describe any relevant support details in package comments, beyond the enumeration.
* Discussion if this should be optional for both AI and Data profiles.  ** Gopi to add 

#### Others
* FDA leans heavily on this standard as well: IEC 81001-5-1 Health software and health IT systems safety, effectiveness and security – Part 5-1: Security – Activities in the product life cycle https://www.iso.org/standard/76097.html

## RC2 blockers
- Gopi to walk through punch list this week.
