# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 31 May, 2023

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Tim Miller (Kusari)
* Nisha Kumar
* Dick Brooks

## Agenda
- Open table

## Notes
### Updates from Gary
* I’ve started working on updating the SPDX java libraries to the SPDX 3.0 spec.  I’ll keep you posted on the progress.
* We’ve got a couple new contributors to the SPDX maven plugin, so we’ll likely see some good improvements to the code.
* I’ll be working on an update to the online tools over the next couple of weeks – if anyone knows of any issues they would like to see addressed in the next week, please note that in the issue or email me.

### Open Table
* Intro from Tim, CEO of Kusari which supports tooling more on the ingestion side of SPDX docs
* https://github.com/kusaridev/spector - tooling and a library for the generation, validation and verification of supply chain metadata documents and frameworks
* NIST hosting event today at MITRE related to SBOMs and vulnerability reporting
* NIST Self attestation reporting deadline delayed
* Procurement officers - gov officials responsible for collecting info related to EO 14028
  * On May 2, 2023, GSA was notified that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is working on a process to extend the deadlines, including for collecting software attestations, contained in OMB Memo M-22-181. Accordingly, the dates reflected in GSA Acquisition Letter MV-2023-022, related to the updating of GSA IT policies and GSA’s collection of software attestations, are no longer applicable. A second Supplement to MV-2023-02, including new deadlines, will be issued once OMB has issued additional information.  Questions regarding this supplement may be directed to GSARPolicy@gsa.gov.
* GUAC presentation from Brandon (Google) and Mike (Kusari) this week at the SPDX general meeting.
