# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 08 February, 2023

## Attendees
* Nisha Kumar
* Dick Brooks
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Ivana Atanasova
* Alex Goodman
* Meret Behrens
* Keith Zantow
* Gary O'Neall

## Agenda
* Approve meeting minutes from last week
* FOSDEM Recap - any interesting conversations?
* SBOMs for Apache binary from Dick (https://dlcdn.apache.org/tomcat/tomcat-9/v9.0.71/bin/apache-tomcat-9.0.71-windows-x64.zip)

## Notes
### Approve meeting minutes from last week
* https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/275 - Approved

### FOSDEM Recap
* Marc-Etienne and Ivana were there
* https://fosdem.org/2023/schedule/track/software_bill_of_materials/
* SBOM Devroom well attended
* Mostly tool operators/producers in attendance
* Adolfo gave summary of 7 key things that an SBOM should include
* Not much time for collaboration
* SBOM scorecard tool - Rose has worked with this and opened some bugs for it. Still feels like it's hard to meaningfully score SBOMs but it's a step in the right direction https://github.com/eBay/sbom-scorecard

### SBOMs for Apache Binary
* Keith shows Syft SBOM for Apache binary
  * Unpacks everything and apply each of the catalogers to determine what it finds in the unpacked stuff
  * Packages
    * found jar files (java types)
    * Flat list of jar files 
    * No relationships of packages/files to the top level zip file
    * Top level pacakge not represented in the SBOM
      * Why? SPDX prior to 2.3 didn't have ability to identify container package correctly; will add this with new `PrimaryPackagePurpose` field in 2.3
      * Rose: glad it's being added, it is be important to represent the top level component with relationships to the sub components, especially when we think about groking/graphing structure of the SBOM.
      * Nisha: this idea of graphable seems to be important in SPDX
      * Gary: Suggest at a minimum to use `DocumentDescribes` for each element or create a top level element that `CONTAINS` all the subcomponents
    * Dick: primary component should be product identifier to be compatible with NTIA minimum element framework best practices
* Dick shares his REA Apache SBOM
  * Context: package identified is a distribution package; what a consumer would download to get Apache tomcat. Perspective of consumer considering installing Apache tomcat
  * Top  level package is the name of the zip file, with version and other metadata
    * What are best practices for identifying a supplier organization?
    * DocumentNamespace is supposed to be unique. This namespace looks like it would be the same between docs [Dick will correct this]
    * Primary component represents the "product level"
    * Utilizes the assumption of contains relationships based on ordering within the document [Gary clarifies that this is only for FILES listed under packages in the TV format]
* Nisha: do you get any feedback about whether the file enumeration is important or package enumeration is important? Do people want package or file info in the document or both?
  * License compliance interested more in package info; vulnerability interest is more file info? Does this seem right?
  * Names/version of components that can be used to search NIST 
  * Definitely want package info - but can use files too
  * Criteria for specifying a package vs a file?
  * Go binaries are basically coming from pacakges - it's distributable
  * Format for distribution is a file but at the top level its actually representative of a package
  * If this SBOM was converted to JSON you would get a contains relationship for files within the package that precedes it
  * You can explicitly put in `CONTAINS` relationships and this might be more clear
  * Dick's SBOM approaches everything as a file (no subpackages), even jar files
    * This sounds reasonable for readers but depends on the ecosystem
    * Gary notes that "What is a package" is a topic that has been discussed for 10 years.
* CISA SBOM tooling community currently looking at SBOM quality topic. What about presentation to them? [Agreement]

### Package Supplier Discussion
* Tern implementing this right now (https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/issues/1205) - using distro as the supplier (per advice from SPDX mailing list)
  * Not always accurate - what if someone adds an upstream repo?
  * Assume that supplier is not actionable and only meant for compliance with NTIA minimum. Only actionable in the case of IOT or medical devices because the word supplier really comes from there. Tools to scan software probably won't yield anything useful. Supplier of a container would be repository (i.e. Docker) if organization is not known
* In NTIA the Supplier is the org that created a software component
  * [Package Originator](https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/package-information/#76-package-originator-field) in SPDX seems it would best align with NTIA definition
* NTIA conflated supplier and originator: "The name of an entity that creates, defines. and identifies components)
  * Issue with "creator" who creates and defines and identifies - might not be the same
  * Is the supplier actionable? Can I go back to RH and say - fix this! Source code scans are not as actionable
