# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 11th January, 2023

## Attendees
* Rose Judge (VMware)
* Dick Brooks (Reliable Energy Analytics)
* John Speed (Chainguard)
* Meret Behrens (TNG technology consulting)
* Adolfo Veytia (Chainguard)
* Nisha Kumar (Oracle)
* Adam Shamblin (Digital Ocean)
* Brandon Lum (Google OSS)
* Gary O'Neall (SPDX Tools)
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau (Nokia OSPO)
* Maximilian Huber (TNG technology consulting)
* Ivana Atanasova (VMware)
* Veronica Lopez (Planet Scale, Kubernetes release)


## Agenda
* What makes a quality SBOM?
  * How does SBOM usage change the answer to this question?
  * SPDX guidance - add to appendix
  
## Notes
### What makes a quality SBOM?
* Adolfo: This discusson started last year. Some tools that are becoming popular are not producing the same quality SPDX documents. So we wanted to know: what are we actually shipping in them? can they serve any purpose at all?
* Hence the origin of the [scorecard tool](https://github.com/eBay/sbom-scorecard) (Justin Abrahms, eBay). Criteria is mostly from eBay OSPO needs. There has been attempts to make the tool configurable to your needs.
* Chainguard has joined forces with Justin to improve this tool instread of writing a new one.
* [NTIA conformance checker](https://github.com/spdx/ntia-conformance-checker) also exists for NTIA quality.
* John: SBOM scorecard checking for presence of licenses, name and version, purl or CPE. It is currently described as a work in progress tool. Justin is seeking feedback for what others want to see for the criteria so the tool can continue to improve.
* NTIA conformance checker checks for data portion of NTIA minimum elements; broad sweep of data fields.
* There are a lot of perspectives and use cases to determine quality
* Dick: REA focuses exclusively on consumer side. We look at SBOMs and other artifacts that a supplier will provide. In this case the SBOM is delivered for consumer risk assessment. Some things that SPDX may provide are not necessary for risk assessment (i.e. license management and dependency tracking)
* Gary: WindRiver wrote a utility a while ago on SPDX quality and looked at granularity of information (i.e did it go to the file level? were dependencies included?) to help determine quality/usability.
* Gary: In the SPDX to OSV utility the `DownloadLocation` was important because it could be translated to purl/cpe to look for vulnerablity information, version specifics/quality metrics, package name + version
* Maximilian: should we talk about how to represent usecases in SBOMs? I still see a big issue here; for example: docker images having to many possible representations in SPDX. No idea how to traverse the image using the SPDX document i.e. are they separated by layer?
* Adolfo: this is the question we are trying to solve here: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/46.
  * Want to establish a baseline for granularity of data: a lot of SBOMs don't have any structure in them. A lot of them don't even mention the software you are describing and there's no way of correlating where the deps fit. They have relationships in the sense that they "depend on" but sometimes they are unrelated.
  * As we talk about SBOM composing we need to have some sort of reference semantic. i.e. if we are describing a Github repo, do it like this, if you are describing a container, do it like that
* Dick: goes back to the concept of understanding the purpose of an SBOM; purpose will dictate content (and perhaps granularity).
* Nisha: CISA is working on a document that describes the types of SBOMs and maybe we can use that guidance to figure out based on the type of SBOM which data fields are needed/looking at.
  * Depending on the tool, the metadata available to [the tool] also changes. Tools are heavily dependent on ecosystem that creates metadata and its highly context depependent. Tool developers are developing based on whats available to them.
* Adolfo: where does that information end up being expressed in the SBOM? We are talking about the same information but the way it is expressed is important. (Question to Dick) Is having the location of the components not useful for you? Sometimes there can be extra information in the SBOM but as the software lifecycle advances, more info is avilabale until there's one giant SBOM with everything in it. As long as it is properly structured, then wouldn't it be easier to consume?
* Dick: typical devops cycle: compiler in the loop; build flags would be helpful for developer but probably not consumer. they only want to know the risk of using it.
* Adolfo: as long as everything is properly structured, how is more information hurtful?
* Nisha: in the container use case, containers are just a collection of software components. The trouble is depending on the use case the components that matter are different. For example, in the license use case you want to know all of the componenets that are being shipped in the container and their licenses -- it doesn't matter what layer they exists in. If it's shipped in the container as a whole then you need to know. For the security use case you don't want to know about all of the layers, you just need to know about the components activated in the read/write layer (not the baseOS). Furthermore, the layer information is an implementation detail of a container itself. In SPDX everything needs to be described as a `Package`, including the container itself. This is what `PrimaryPackagePurpose` in SPDX 2.3 was meant to clarify. SPDX 3.0 might provide a better way of describing a container in a way that accurately reflects the container ecosystem.
* How do we make these SBOMs consumable? Rather than having the information embedded in the strucutre; where can we put it in the SBOM itself?
* Adolfo: cannot extract the information that we need without strucutre. Want to avoid having a list of different ways SBOM can be consumed.
* Dick: If you are supplying an SBOM to the end consumer for purpose of risk assessment; content model should align with NIST database 
* Gary: CPE is the only reliable identifier I've been able to use to match up products between SBOMs
* Adolfo: TOOD proposal: Let's gather a few SBOMs for the next meeting and try to see how the tools are structuring it -- critique it and provide guidance
  * nginx:latest image a good option (large number of dependencies, debian based)
* ***Conclusion of meeting:*** The structure of content in an SPDX document for different artifacts needs to be the same regardless of the tool generating the SBOM before we can ask consumers to deem whether an SBOM is quality or not. Before we can assess the quality information in an SBOM we need to have a reliable strucutre to consume it to make sure all tools are understanding the same granularity of information which they are making their quality assessment upon.
