# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 22nd March, 2023

## Attendees
* Keith Zantow
* Rose Judge
* Nisha Kumar
* Gary O'Neall
* Gaurav Mishra
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Ivana Atanasova

## Agenda
* SPDX 3.0 Implementation planning
* Open Table
* Approve open meeting minutes PRs

## Notes
### SPDX 3.0 Implementation planning
* A lot of tool maintainers would like to deprecate 2.2 but it's an ISO standard which makes it hard
* 3.0 will  be the next ISO standard

### Open Table
* sbom-composer tool was donated to opensbom-generator namespace: https://github.com/opensbom-generator/sbom-composer
* The tool doesn't currently support CDX but plans for it to have support in the future
* There is a C# tool that converts SPDX to CDX: https://github.com/CycloneDX/cyclonedx-cli
* There is a java tool that converts CDX to SPDX: https://github.com/spdx/cdx2spdx
    * Patrick (CDX) and Gary have worked on this translation. Not all conversions are straightforward.
* Syft has a convert command that translates from A format -> Syft data model -> B format
* Is there data loss between the two?
* CDX has a `properties` section that you can put any data in
  * This section will mostly be lost when converted to SPDX unless special care is taken
  * Gary put `properties` from cdx as an annotation in SPDX with a JSON text string in the comment.
* Will 3.0 mean more or less data loss in conversion? Gary: should bring us closer together, especially due to a lot of the security profile additions. That's a current large gap right now. CDX is implementing annotations in a similar way to SPDX. However, both specs are expanding into areas not covered by the other.
* Tern uses comments for a lot of extra info not covered in the spec.. maybe should consider using annotations.
* Annotations are the same in 3.0 but 3.0 will have extensions (analogous to properties in cdx)
* SPDX 3.0 formats are still up in the air so no implementation can happen for a while
  * If someone is implementing two profiles.. do they go in the same document or separate?
  * No concept of document in SPDX 3.0 -- if you're not exchanging data but you have a cloud service that allows you to query SBOM info, having a document doesn't make sense. We have a class to hold the serialization information (a lot of the document creation info) gets put in a separate class and every single element has an element creation property (can be pointed to the same creation info as the document).
  * Every element can be standalone (i.e. just a "document" for a file) 
  * Need a word to use for "document" which means the SBOM "thing" - "envelope"?
* Gary has been working on a document to map of differences between 2.3 and 3.0: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-olHRnX1CssUS67Psv_sAq9Vd-pc81HF8MM0hA7M0hg/edit
* Keith has been working on tools-golang to make 2.3 to 3.0 translation easier

### Approve open meeting minutes PRs
*  Please take a look at past notes and approve so we can merge:
  * https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/295
  * https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/287
  * https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/279
