# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 28 June, 2023

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Tim Miller
* Keith Zantow
* Holger Frydrych
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Nisha Kumar
* Gary O'Neall
* Anthony Harrison
* Armin Tanzer
* Dick Brooks
* Karen Bennet
* Max Huber

## Agenda
* Approve open meeting minutes
* Discuss CISA SBOM-o-rama with those who attended
* Opinions about ongoing JSON vs JSON-LD serialization discussion
* Announcement: [OSS EU SPDX Mini Summit](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-europe/features/co-located-events/#spdx-mini-summit) scheduled in Bilbao.
* Open table


## Notes
### Approve open meeting minutes
* Please review and approve on GitHub so minutes can be merged
  * https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/351
  * https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/348

### CISA SBOM-o-rama
* Good conference with good SBOM groups from different standards
* Strong government representation (DOD + US Government slant)
* Presentation format - not a lot of room for questions and dialogue
* Some discussion on SBOM quality. Folks wrestling with supplier field for open source packages
  * Supplier [discussion](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SX8bj7NcJztYjE05DihUyT00Yg7TZFWu4FYOsWfn9mg/edit#) has been a month long thing for the CISA SBOM Tooling group as well
  * In the last meeting, someone from FDA came and said they are looking at supplier as who can fix a problem should it arrise in that component
* Slides from the event available [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OSNYKfSX0sj0ywE3t9_WPYAaCMJnV1ZUztAZwJXmZVI/edit?usp=sharing); specifically, [slide on suppliers](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OSNYKfSX0sj0ywE3t9_WPYAaCMJnV1ZUztAZwJXmZVI/edit#slide=id.g24f12fef34e_0_294)
* SPDX making progress in adoption
* Good traction from vendor communities that are able to support SBOMs (creation side)
* Dick's impression that there is less adoption on end user side (consumption)
  * Consistent with tooling ecosystem - lots more generation tools than consumption
* Issues for consumption: inconsistency between tools and not NTIA minimum compliant; missing relationships between components; differing supplier

### Serialization discussion
* Would we get broader adoption supporting multiple formats or simplify to one or two?
  * The idea was that any consumer or producer can support their favorite one as long as we provided tools to translate between the two
  * Should we simplify in 3.0?
  * Nisha: the underlying format itself doesn't matter; it's more about the translation tools and concern is around data loss there and all the tools not understanding everything
  * Anthony: JSON and YAML are easy for CI/CD pipelines. Never seen RDF or XML in the wild. Need to be careful with cdx/spdx translation - folks are going to start nailing their toolchain to one format and we need to be cognizant of interoperability which doesn't totally exist
  * Dick: Different SPXD formats have different content models and this may be an issue for adoption.
    * Gary: In 2.3 they are the same object model between formats so maybe there is a misunderstanding there
* JSON-LD is set to exist with SPDX 3. The question is whether we should add another JSON serialization format?
  * Thomas also opened: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/396 which is a separate issue (not competing with JSON vs JSON-LD discussion)
  * JSON-LD is syntactically the same, but it doesn't work the other way around. Read the file are parse with JSON and then use operations specific to JSON-LD
  * Armin: There are JSON-LD parsers
* Tim: I would really just consider, if you are going to make consumers use new ways of ingesting your data, vs built in or expected tooling, you're going to be making adoption quite a bit harder.  I'm not familiar with JSON-LD, so I don't know the implications of that specific decision (+1 from Nisha)
  * Armin: Want to stress that **JSON LD is JSON** with extra features that you can ignore (+1 from Gary)
  * Nisha: concern is that stuff in @context may have data that the stuff in the body doesn't have and as an implementer that is just using JSON I don't want to ignore that. 
  * Gary: context does have data not present in JSON but all other simple JSON proposals are missing that same data
* Nisha: Can we use the SPDX Examples repo to test all this out? Different tools can put different documents in there and we can test assumptions on translations?
* Gary: Let's bring this up on the Thursday serialization meeting. "SPDX 3 Serialization Playground" repo for exploring different approaches as Nisha proposes makes sense
  * Serialization meeting takes place Thursdays at 8am Pacific
