# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - 17 May, 2023

## Attendees
* Nisha Kumar
* Keith Zantow
* Meret Behrens
* Adolfo García Veytia
* Tim Miller
* Parth Patel
* Ivana Atansova
* Gary O'Neall
* Karen Bennett
* Dick Brooks
* Rose Judge
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Maximillian Huber

## Agenda
* Proposal to open this call to tooling users as well as implementers?
* SPDX 3.0 RC1 Tooling Implementers progress/concerns/discussions
* Open Table

## Notes
### Proposal for users to join this call?
* Keith: Maybe not the right forum for this. We already have GitHub issues and community Slack for this as well as Anchore office hours every two weeks; but not opposed to this necessarily, all feedback is good feedback
* Dick: Would support having end user voice at the table 
* Gary: How about open up the implementers meeting once a quarter
  * Agree: Ivana & Nisha
* Nisha: how can we promote this? Gary: Jordi (Linux Foundation) can promote this meeting.
* Keith: ask the implementers event? If this digresses into asking help from a specific tool. Would prefer have it focused on implementers most of the time.
* Dick: IETF has implementers and users working together. Perhaps use their model.
* Parth: Collect common problems that can be addressed across all the tooling
* Rose: agree with not every week. Can work with Jordi and Kate about promotion.
* Tim: are communities mutually exclusive?
* Nisha: not mutually exclusive - for example: Syft and Grype have limitations with SPDX interoperability

### Fields with inconsistent values between tooling
* In general, tools have problems with interoperability - tools either produce or consume
* Keith: for SPDX 3.0 - Different profiles are going to create vastly different documents
* Nisha: SPDX 3.0 is working on serialization for more uniform implementation
* Dick: NTIA minimum elements for an SBOM is designed for unification across tools
* Nisha: Issue with purls is that lots of vuln analysis tools depend on them but not in a consistent place in 2.x (download location vs identifier)
* In 3.0, purl is a direct property
* Gary: Maybe we want to identify fields that have trouble being consistent (first that comes to mind is verification code)
* Dick: when we're trying to find vulns we naturally go to NVD but it doesn't support purl, it uses CPEs (which have their own problems)
* Keith: CPEs are the bane of our existence (for tooling) :D
* Rose: Similarly, the supplier field is incredibly ambiguous and most people fill it in differently for the same piece of software
* Nisha: Do you see any of the information from informal CISA working groups bubble up to the formal policy making decision?
* Dick: ICT_SCRM taskforce - public private taskforce
* Since files analyzed is gone, what is the point of verification code?
* In 3.0 it's undefined what it means to verify a package
* If there is a download file associated with the package then the verification is just the checksum of that file. If not present and source files present than something similar to package verification code or we just say that it's not there at all. If no files or download location - no way to verify so not present
* Keith: I despise it because it's so inconsistnet. Very specific way to hash, etc. The scanners are not reporting the files the same way 
* Ivana: only concern is that when you cannot use checksum we cannot guarantee identity of a package
  * It's hard to verify anyway since receiver of SBOM doesn't have access to files
* Maybe we write up guidance of how to verify package but don't use package verification code for this
  * Don't love this 
* Verified Using is an abstract class. Maybe it doesn't have a single value/string
  * i.e. Verified using source files or downloaded package file
  * Gary: VerifiedUsing provides an IntegrityMethod with which the integrity of an Element can be asserted. 
  * Dick: verified is in the process not the element
  * Use cases where it is required to be in the SBOM itself.
  * Max: Use case: SBOM next to source code and want a way of telling me this is the source code I'm talking about so you can verify the mapping is correct and this doesn't work using signatures
* VerifiedUsing: could have list of elements (i.e. files) so consumer of SBOM given source could arrive at the same elements to verify 
* Let's look at solarwinds examlpe: If I had hash value of component that was comprimised wouldn't of helped me much 
  * Use case of where it helps - I get source code that I want to verify matches the source code in the SPDX doc
  * For solar winds, build system was comprimised - so if you sign your artifact at the end its not going to indicate if your build was tampered with. In this case verification code is not whether it comes from right authority but whether you're expected files that come out of build system match the actual files that come out of the build system
* Thomas: Let's focus on 3.0 - is this in scope?
* Can we bundle up some of these requests for feedback and ask Jordi to put them out there to see what users think. 
  * Agreement that this is a good idea - let's bring ideas in the call for 2 weeks. Let's focus on fields that tools often don't come to the same agreement or that maybe aren't neeed as a focus for 3.0 so we can focus on what is imperative
    - Verification code
    - Tag value format
