## Attendees

  - Esteban Rockett (Motorola)
  - Kate Stewart (Canonical)
  - Kim Weins (OpenLogic)
  - Peter Williams (OpenLogic)
  - Scott Peterson (HP)
  - Jilayne Lovejoy (OpenLogic)
  - Tom Incorvia (Microfocus)
  - Michael Herzog (NexB)
  - Phil Odence (BlackDuck)

## Minutes

  - This meeting was a continuation of "Item E" from the regular Legal
    Workstream Meeting of
    [12-Jan-2011](Legal_Team/Minutes/2011-01-12 "wikilink").
  - Subject to refining terminology (where attendees will email
    terminology/minor revisions or do so on Bugzilla), attendees agreed
    to the following:

(minor edits consistent with meeting done below by Rockett)

Proposal: section 5.3 (License(s)) of the spec will become 3 fields:

5.3a Asserted/Concluded License

5.3a.1 Purpose: This field contains the license governing the file if it
can be determined. If no license information can be determined, the
license is denoted as "Unknown". The licenses should use the standard
short form names. See Appendix I for standardized license short forms.
If a Asserted/Concluded License is not one of the standardized license
short forms, this field must contain a reference to the full licenses
text included in this SPDX file in section 4. If more than one license
is asserted/concluded in the file, then each should be listed. If any of
the asserted/concluded licenses offer the recipient a choice of
licenses, then each of the choices will be declared as a "disjunctive"
license.

5.3a.2 Intent: Here, the intent is to have a uniform method to refer to
the license that is determined to represent the file with specificity to
eliminate any license confusion. For example, the 3 clause BSD would
have a different license identifier then the 4 clause BSD.

5.3a.3 Cardinality: Mandatory, one.

5.3a.4 Tag: "LicenseAsserted:"

5.3a.5 RDF: TBD (include Disjunctive form here)

5.3a.6 Data Format: \<short form identifier in

Appendix I\> | "FullLicense"-N

5.3a.7 Example:

LicenseAsserted: GPL-2.0

5.3b Detected License(s)

5.3b.1 Purpose: This field contains the license recited in the file, if
any. It will be explicit from the file header or other information found
in the file's source code. If no license information is found it should
be denoted as "NotSpecified". If no license information can be
determined, the license is denoted as "Unknown". The licenses should use
the standard short form names. See Appendix I for standardized license
short forms. If a Detected License is not one of the standardized
license short forms, this field must contain a reference to the full
licenses text included in this SPDX file in section 4. If more than one
license is detected in the file, then each should be listed. If any of
the detected licenses offer the recipient a choice of licenses, then
each of the choices will be declared as a "disjunctive" license.

5.ba.2 Intent: Here, the intent is to have a uniform method to refer to
each license with specificity to eliminate any license confusion. For
example, the 3 clause BSD would have a different license identifier then
the 4 clause BSD.

5.3b.3 Cardinality: Mandatory, one or many.

5.3b.4 Tag: "LicenseDetected:"

5.3b.5 RDF: TBD (not including disjunctive form, if multiple many should
be specified)

5.3b.6 Data Format: \<short form identifier in

Appendix I\> | "FullLicense"-N

5.3b.7 Example:

LicenseDetected: GPL-2.0

LicenseDetected: FullLicense-2

5.3c License Comments

5.3c.1 Purpose: This field is a detailed description of the analysis and
any relevent background references that went in to making the asserted
license for a file, if the asserted/concluded license does not match the
detected license that the person creating the SPDX file wants to share
with the reviewers.

5.3c.2 Intent: Here, the intent is to provide technical
readers/reviewers with a detailed technical explanation of how the
asserted license was determined if it does not match the detected
license.

5.3c.3 Cardinality: Optional, single instance

5.3c.4 Tag: "LicenseComments:"

5.3c.5 RDF: TBD

5.3c.6 Data Format: free form text than can span multiple lines,
preceded with \<text\> and ending with \</text\>.

5.3c.7 Example: LicenseComments: \<text\> The asserted license was taken
from the package level that the file was included in. \</text\>

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
