## Attendees

  - Esteban Rockett, Motorola
  - Karen Copenhaver, Choate Hall
  - Tom Incorvia, Microfocus
  - Paul Madick, HP
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, OpenLogic

## Data license update

Rockett still trying to schedule with Eben re: any concerns about
CC-Zero and his opinion on the preamble we have drafted

seeing some disengagement as a result of this issue; probably want to
run it by Fedora and some of the Cisco guys who objected before
full-sale announcement as well.

## Now that the website is back up - are we comfortable we have a back-up?

  - need to know how LF is going to address potential failure and feel
    comfortable with that plan
  - have redirect, i.e. second backup; relying on this to give documents
    to client
  - need to have conversation with Mike or Jim from LF; can they give
    the same support as given to the kernel?Also ask, did they have a
    mirroring function that will be applicable to SPDX and if not, then
    do we want to do that?Are we part of mirroring plan?What is timing
    to trigger? (ideally, don't want down-time to be more than 4 hours);
    if all sites go down, does this include the mirror as well (mirrors
    went down as well this time?? how were the mirrors structured
    before?) need to know this as well.
  - need to get conversation going; if LF has a backup, do we want a
    backup to the backup?
  - want Jim to be part of call, as well as Mike, they have already
    heard from Karen, but need to hear from members - e.g. Tom's
    example/what is based on this site and the reliance on it by members
    - Karen can help coordinate and workgroup needs to be prepared to
    present scenario

## Communication channel - do we want communications to be separate than server? And if so, what channel?

  - have list in alternate place, so we can access list - copying it
    off-line would probably be enough for a backup
  - we have an IRC channel on Freenode. not much traffic now. probably
    pretty robust in terms of reliability, but need to educate people on
    how to use it
  - do technical or business teams have a recommendation (what are they
    doing?) Would be good to have a consistent solution across all four
    mailing groups → discuss in general meeting tomorrow
  - what are our requirements (as legal team)?
      - would prefer wherever communication is held, so that it's
        seamless and efficient
      - be able to continue to communicate whether or not the server
        went out or not
      - links still work
      - ability to know which issues are open and pending in Bugzilla
        important to legal team? may be under-used by legal team, but
        should continue with that; best place for revision tracking?
        helpful for things that aren't dealt with right away for logging
        stuff
  - → legal team will track on whatever the technical team goes with, no
    additional requirements from us
  - templatizing tool will also need to be available at same rate as
    licenses and spec, etc.

## Action items

  - schedule talk with Jim and Mike re: mirroring/back-up
  - communications rqmts - discuss at General Meeting tomorrow
  - continue using Bugzilla for text documents - people to
    re-familiarize and/or use more

[Minutes](Category:Legal "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
