## Attendees

  - Bill Schineller
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Peter Williams
  - Kate Stewart

## Review of previous meetings

RDF to Tag notation - Kate to provide a grammer. Will include the zlib
example in the tag/value format

Key discussion point is how the implicit section boundaries will impact
forward compatibility (issue 589)

## Review of issues recorded in the issue tracking

Issue 590 - How individual files are referenced:

  - Discussed use cases for having a unique reference to a file
  - Discussed whether we should have a single URL for a file
  - Areed that in the RDF, there needs to be a single URI (whether
    created by conventions or auto

generated in rdf/xml)

  - Discussed an approach we feel will have merit where the tag/value
    format has 2 tags for a file

(package + file) and we have some documented conventions for converting
between these 2 tags and the RDF

file URI

  - We can use the example created for the tag notation to solidify the
    proposal

Discussion on the repository

  - git repositories have been setup - the ontology
  - Master will be the official version of the spec
  - Proposal to have a post-commit rake task create the ontology

Need the appendices added to the git repository

Peter will send out an email on how to pull down the spdx-spec from the
git repo

All - review the spdx-spec and document any questions/issues

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
