## Attendees

  - Bill Schineller
  - Branden Robinson
  - Peter Williams
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Kate Stewart

## Agenda

  - Feedback from the betas

## Tool defects

  - Posted as bugs in bugzilla
  - Bug 824 – error if the standard licenses are not present in the spdx
    document
      - OK to assume that the type information will be present for
        non-standard licenses
      - Basic design to attempt to load the RDF graph for standard
        licenses
          - First attempt will be against the spdx.org/licenses website
          - If the first attempt fails, the a static file distributed
            with the application in the jar file will be used
  - Plan to fix and updated the tools before next Tuesday’s call

## Other beta feedback

  - Discussion on the Fossology support
  - Recognizing “families” of licenses
  - Agent definitions – disconnect between tag/value restricted to
    “Person …” where RDF is just a string. Decided to discuss next
    week. Peter will provide a proposal for RDF.
  - Versions – Decided that the beta version of the spec should be 0.9.
    Will update spec and tools.
  - Package Verification Code – update spec, documented in bug 832 –
    Gary and Kate to review.
  - Next week, review (and clean up) bugs. Decide which ones need to be
    fixed for release 1.
  - Discussion on the jar files/archive files found in a package.
    Decided to treat these as a single file with concluded licenses and
    “NONE” for the found license.
  - FAQ’s – need to divide up the works. Will do this on next week’s
    call.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
