Minutes 3/29/2011 and 3/30/2011

## Attendees 3/29/2011

  - Nicholas Loke
  - Branden Robinson
  - Kristin Newcomer
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kate Stewart
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Peter Williams

## Attendees 3/30/2011

  - Jack Manbeck
  - Bill Schineller
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Nicholas Loke
  - Marshal
  - Peter Williams
  - Kate Stewart

## Agenda

  - Review naming spreadsheet updates
  - Discuss ways to represent the RDF entities in the spec

## Spreadsheet

  - Reviewed Creator change name to creationInfo (property) and
    CreationInfo (Class)
  - Discussion on if we should prepend property names with cardinality
    of 1 to N with “has” – we will decide after completing the rest of
    the spreadsheet
  - Format of the spreadsheet RDF column: propertyName/Range (and/or
    class)
  - Proposal for Beta – remove the CreationInfo class, add back a
    property for creator – range Agent, add a creatorComment property -
    string
  - Future – proposal to add changelog class and property to Analysis
  - Todo: Gary to re-align spreadsheet rows

We decided to have a follow-on call on Wednesday, 2:00PM Eastern. Bill
will send out an invite.

## Continuation of the call

  - Agreed to go back to a simple model for creator (property
    spdx:creator) and comment – (property spdx:creatorComment). We
    discussed whether comment should be spdxcreatorComment or
    rdfs:comment. Concluded that the semantics are different enough to
    create an SPDX specific property.
  - Discussed the use of the Checksum class and alternatives to
    providing the extensibility (e.g. separate properties for each
    algorithm and having the algorithm be identified through the
    subclass of Checksum rather than a property). Decided on using the
    checksum class as it allows for additional / different properties
    based on the algorithm and keeping the algorithm property.
  - Change property name from spdx:packageChecksum to spdx:checksum
    since it is semantically the same property as the file property –
    Note: we did not (and probably should) update the fileChecksum to
    checksum.
  - Discussed whether we should change the range of the
    packageVerificationCode to a Checksum class. We decided to leave it
    as a literal string for now, although most people on the call
    thought that we should make this field more extensible. We will
    revisit this during and/or after beta.
  - Licensing discussion:
      - We discussed the name and meaning of the “NonStandardLicense”.
        Agreed to rename the field (see spreadsheet for resolved name)
      - We discussed whether the RDF model should have the previously
        named “NonStandardLicense” as a subclass of License. We will
        pick up this discussion in our face to face meeting.
      - The LicenseSets (ConjunctiveLicenseSet and
        DisjunctiveLicenseSet) will both contain LicensingInfo objects.

Note: there will not be a call next Tuesday, we will meet again at the
face to face meeting at the Linux Collaboration Summit

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
