## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Kate Stewart
  - Rana Rahal
  - Ed Warnicke
  - Peter Williams

## Agenda

  - Updates, review next steps on the embedded proposal

## License Metadata

  - Discussion on additional license metadata for custom licenses – bug
    \#975 submitted to capture the request

## Updates

  - Tools update – Source code pushed to Linux foundation git repo and
    github. Rana contributed a tag to rdf tool. A first pass is complete
    on the HTML viewer. The HTML viewer will produce a single HTML file.
    Currently there is no formatting on the HTML file. Binaries for the
    tools will be built and published once unit testing is complete.
  - Website update – Discussion on use of github as a backup to Linux
    foundation git repo, but the Linux foundation will be primary repo

## Review of last week’s minutes

  - Discussion on backwards compatibility requirements. Need to have a
    definitive statement for the mandatory fields. Have a way to convert
    forward and an understanding of what would be lost translating back.
    Need to be a way to represent one model that incorporates both 1.0
    and 2.0 spdx. Propose a general approach of creating a new model
    that is not constrained by compatibility then, once the proposal is
    understood; make the specific tradeoffs to compatibility.
  - Suggestion to that we have specific examples to work against for
    working on the hierarchical proposals. Suggestion for examples on
    embedded packages (zlib and coreutils), need an example for supply
    change and possible one that mixes both supply chain and embedded.
    FFMPEG and JBoss were suggested. Three examples, zlib, coreutils,
    FFMPEG. Rsyslog as an example of a simple supply chain example. It
    is showing up in various embedded products. Commons Logging as
    another example – simple embedded case. Consider a Maven based
    scenario. Apache CFX as another example.
  - Suggestion to replace the term ACL (“includes/excludes”)

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
