## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Kate Stewart
  - Rana Rahal
  - Ed Warnicke
  - Brandon Robinson
  - Peter Williams

## Agenda

  - Ed’s composite package proposal

## Updates

  - Git repos back online

## Composite Package Proposal

  - Ed walked through the proposal
  - Discussion on the ACL – can be used to describe what is included or
    excluded – perhaps even what source files are used to produce a
    particular binary.
  - Discussion on the domain model – should we be modeling general
    copyrightable material or modeling software packaging? Agree that we
    are not modeling the entire copyright domain. Mapping a subset of
    the copyright domain. The proposal is to model more of
    “copyrightable things” rather than just packages.
  - Do we need to have more detail on the relationship between elements?
    (left open)
  - Do we have a separate file for signature or do we have an “envelope”
    with a signature?
  - Should we separate out the concept of what is physically
    included/embedded from the relationship of analyzed components?
    Should these be represented as separate graphs?
  - Annotations approach compared to modifying a copy of an SPDX
    document. Annotations help solve the provenance problems. Annotation
    approach would be difficult for tools to recreate the new SPDX file
    representation. (left open)
      - Example use cases – Different opinion on the licensing for the
        package, choice of a license for a package that offers license
        choices
      - Alternative proposal – add an additional tag in an SPDX file to
        denote which SPDX file it is based on and what changes were made
  - Do we care about backwards compatibility? Agree to have a future
    discussion.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
