## Attendees

  - Bill Schineller
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Branden Robinson
  - Peter Williams
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Kate Stewart
  - Nicholaas Loke
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Marshal

## Agenda

  - Open bug list review
  - Spec walkthrough/check for ambiguities

## Review open bug list

  - 887 - Do we have structured strings for creator, reviewer, …? Agreed
    that in the future, the RDF structure will probably be different
    than a structured string but we do not have time to create, review
    and implement a proposal. Agreed to have a structured string for
    this release – Peter will propose a more formal syntax. Note: SPDX
    tools currently doea a simple partial validation of strings starting
    with “PERSON:”, “ORGANIZATION:”, etc.
  - 728 - Move examples to spdx.org – leave in spdx.org/spec/examples –
    Kirsten will create subcatory for “work in progress”, once reviewed
    we can label the examples as conforming to the spec. Can close bug.
  - Xxx – What license is the RDF terms released under, need to confirm
    with legal. Peter will follow-up with legal. Proposal to make the
    rdf spec
  - 874 – packageOriginator and packageSuppler → originator, supplier –
    spec is being updated. Tools will be updated and re-uploaded this
    morning to make consistent.
  - Suggest that the class order in the rdf terms page match the order
    from the spec
  - 656 – closed after review of license text and license index
  - 883 – agree we don’t need ascending order for license ID’s –
    assigned bug to Kate and will e fixed in next rev of the spec
  - 886 – broken link, assigned to Kate, will be fixed in next release
  - 888 – rdf example fix - assigned to Kate, will be fixed in next
    release

## Walkthrough of spec changes

  - Reviewed updates (a few changes were noted “spdx.com” → “spdx.org”)
  - Request to make sections 5 and 6 consistent in the statement for
    what is required and optional – Steve to send an email describing
    request to the group
  - Decided to change the status of the rdf terms from “testing” to
    “stable”

## Other status

  - RDF terms will be updated by this afternoon (Peter)
  - Gary will review the doc, rdf terms, and tool property values for
    consistency

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
