## Attendees

  - Bill Schineller
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Branden Robinson
  - Peter Williams
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Nicholas Loke

## Agenda

  - Updates from last week

## Updates since last week

  - Spreadsheet example updated with ArtifactOf
  - Beta website update, since Beta is coming to a close we may not want
    to move the beta information

## Web site for usage information for the spec

  - Consider setting this up in the technical area
  - Consider just adding the information to the FAQ
  - Agree to update the draft SPDX FAQ. Once beta is complete, we can go
    through the FAQ and separate out any information which should be in
    a usage (or other) area
  - Added a link to the FAQ from the technical area

## Tools update

  - Feedback on installation – dependency on the Java environment
  - A defect is causing warnings which has caused some concerns from the
    Beta participants (since the call, I added this to Buzilla – id 823)

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
