## Attendees

  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Nicholas Loke
  - Peter Williams
  - Kate Stewart
  - Steve Cropper
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Marshall Clow

## Agenda

  - Discussion of Supplier related fields
  - Review of recent updates to the Spec
  - Open Action Items (see list at end of minutes)

## Supplier fields discussion

  - Kate has updated the working version of the spec with the two fields
    discussed last week
      - Package Supplier
      - Package Originator
  - Today's discussion started with some email threads on intended use
    of
  - We seem to have a common understanding of what info should be used
    to fill in the Package Supplier field
  - We're still working toward a common understanding for the Package
    Originator field
      - We discussed a few possibilities. For example, is the data in
        the Package Originator field
          - the copyright holder?
          - the place where the Supplier got the code?
      - We discussed the desire to capture the chain of custody in the
        SPDX document; Kate noted that was part of the original intent
        of the Reviewer field
      - We noted that there is an overlap between the goal of capturing
        chain of custody and the need for hierarchy in the SPDX
        document; hierarchy will be discussed post 1.0
  - Concluded: we need to make an extra effort to document the thinking
    behind these fields and provide usage guidelines

## Additional updates to Spec

  - Kate walked the team through some additional updates that have been
    made to the spec as well as some planned changes based on feedback
  - Key changes include:
      - Clean up of RDF section (typos, spelling)
      - Proposed changes to certain field names for tag/value
      - Section 1.7: Conformance statement will point to trademark
        statement that is being worked by legal team and will be posted
        to web. This is not yet finalized.
      - Section 2.2: SPDX data will still be delivered under PDDL-1.0.
        Confidentiality field has been dropped.
          - Acknowledged that this could be an issue for using SPDX with
            commercial/proprietary code and plan to discuss commercial
            code use case post-1.0 GA
      - Recommend that info be added on where to provide feedback

## Open Action Items

  - Everyone: Bug list review
      - review for any open P1s assigned to you
      - review closed bugs to be sure we're in agreement
  - Start developing Guidelines for Implementation/Use and/or Best
    Practices
      - Everyone: Review current FAQ as starting point. You can find it
        here: <http://spdx.org/spec/guidelines>
      - If you've volunteered to update/add to a certain section, please
        add your name here. :-)
  - Kirsten: Provide website location for 2 items so can be referenced
    in Spec
      - Process for requesting licenses be added to SPDX license list.
      - SPDX trademark terms.
          - I've added placehoder text for a links here:
            <http://spdx.org/spec>
          - I don't have the privs to create a new child page and will
            send a note to Martin
  - Everyone: Please review the spec with the goal of approving final
    version next week if possible

Corrections, additions welcome.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
