## Attendees

  - Bill Schineller
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Branden Robinson
  - Peter Williams
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Kate Stewart
  - Nicholaas Loke
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Marshal Clow

## Agenda

  - Weekly call Logistics
  - LinuxCon Feedback
  - Proposal for Spec Version numbering
  - Tools source structure
  - Verification Code algorithm
  - Composite Packages
  - “Garbage Files”

## Logistics

  - Move to 2:00 Eastern to accommodate west coast- considering that we
    don’t currently have any attendees from Europe. Kate will update
    Wiki.

## Feedback from LinuxCon

  - Discussed relationship between SPDX packages and the needed for a
    hierarchical relationship
  - Discussed PDDL
  - Discussed compatibility between tags and RDF for future development

## Numbering for Spec. version

  - Format AA.BB.CC
      - AA – Major version - Incremented for changes incompatible with
        previous versions (current definition)
      - BB – Minor version - would be used when changes may impact the
        consumer, but is compatible with previous versions
      - CC – Micro version - would be used when the changes do not
        impact to the consumer of SPDX

## Tools source structure

  - Create separate repositories for the different language tools
  - Create a separate git-repo named “Python-SPDX-Tools”
  - Rename current tools repo to “Java-SPDX-Tools”
  - Kate will either send info to Gary or send info to Linux Foundation
    to make changes

Note: Bugzilla has a target field to indicate which release the
resolution is targeted for. There are no targets for detail “CC”
versions; we will use the major version targets for those changes.

## Verification code algorithm

  - Need to specify a better separator character “\\n” is ambiguous –
    Kate will choose a character and update spec
  - Update to the verification code algorithm would result in an
    increment to the micro version (e.g. 1.0.1)

## Bug 818 – Composite packages

  - Agreed to create a request for proposal
  - Will update bug with additional information discussed on the call
  - Three approaches were discussed:
      - Include all composite information in one document
      - Keep package documents separate and have separate new type of
        file to cross reference.
      - Enable multiple documents to cross reference each other
          - Link files
          - Unique IDs
              - Can use the verification code
  - Signing documents
      - How does adding reviewer information impact the signing?
  - Composite packages requirements
      - Requirements will be included in the request for proposal
      - We will discuss the requirements on next week’s call

## “Garbage Files” (e.g. .svn files)

  - All files need to be included in the file info, even “garbage files”
  - Proposal to create a new file type – “CRUFT” – proposal for the
    mailing list. Gary will write a proposal in the form of a bug and
    send to the mailing list. (Bug 944 has been added with the proposal)

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
