## Attendees

  - Bill Schineller
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Kate Stewart
  - Nicholas Loke
  - Peter Williams
  - Gary O’Neall

## Review of last week’s items

  - Legal language updated from last week completed
  - Review of document – Kate received some comments
  - Spreadsheet example of the URI for artifactOf (Gary) – Still pending
  - Spec updated with change to hasFile
  - PackageVerificationCode – still pending
  - SimpleLicensingInfo – pending
  - Embedded Octect Stream - pending

## Update on Kate’s conversation with Steve

  - Need to capture a “supply chain” for the origin of the packages
      - Can capture this as a reviewer, but would require a company –
        proposal to have Reviewer be an Agent. Agree to change the spec
        to accommodate company. We can change the definition of the
        string or we can implement Agent. For Beta, we can change the
        definition of the string. We would like to implement an Agent
        structure, but that would require a more detailed proposal and
        incrementing the version number. Kate will work on a proposal.
  - Proposal to have a package level ArtifactOf. Agree that this will be
    useful. This may require two different properties to represent A) if
    the package is part of a larger project and B) the package
    originates in a particular project. We need some use cases written –
    Peter will write one of the use cases in a bug.
  - Need to write-up usage of the spec
      - Agree to create a Wiki page for usage guidelines. This would be
        structured around use cases and a description of the fields. The
        per-field would shadow the spec. Any contributed conversations
        to the per-field could be rolled into the spec itself at a later
        date. Would like to create a separate Beta web page which would
        include a link to the usage guidelines page. This could be added
        under participation. Kirsten will add after checking with Kim.
  - Crypto flag request – need a proposal.
  - Suggest that we add bugs for the new proposal.
  - Open source or commercial package flag request – concern that
    different companies/organizations have different definitions of open
    source and commercial package
  - Package version – request to make the version parseable. Agree to
    add a field, but there was concern on making it parseable – Kate
    will add this in the next draft
  - Use of term package, raises questions about the hierarchy of
    packages. ArtifactOf at the package level will help.
  - A third delivery model – 1) SPDX is a sidecar to the package
    archive, 2) SPDX is embedded in the package, 3) a third proposal
    would be to have the SPDX document itself contains the archive.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
