## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Rana Rahal
  - Ed Warnicke
  - Brandon Robinson
  - Peter Williams

## Agenda

  - Bugzilla bug review

## Updates

  - Bill pinged Jaime Garcia on validating the new package verification
    code algorithms, have not yet heard back
  - Bugzilla is back\!
  - Minor progress on HTML pretty printer

## Bugs

  - 818 – Composite packages – this represents the general discussion on
    hierarchies
  - 968 – Package Verification Algorithm should be addressed. Will be in
    a 1.1 version.
  - 944 – Gary will propose a new filetype for version 2 for “CRUFT”
    files
  - 878 – Download mechanism link would be a useful improvement. Note
    that different source management systems have different mechanisms
    and information to denote the versions and download specifics. DOAP
    has a vocabulary for this, proposal to look at DOAP and see if it
    can be leveraged.
  - 898 - Changelog discussion:
      - The proposal for composite packages can solve the need for
        changelogs by having one SPDX document refer to a previous SPDX
        document with an annotation on what has changed
      - Should a complete copy be made or a reference?
      - Should it be versioned? No – a versioning would require an
        authority. Need a mechanism to reliably refer to previous
        versions (e.g. a hashcode, verification code or other
        mechanism). Action – add a bug to represent this issue – Peter
        will add.
  - 591 – Proposal to change the license list to include “or later” for
    some of the license declarations. Note that the license text for a
    GPL 2.0 or later license will reflect the GPL 2.0 text, which isn’t
    exactly correct (especially of a GPL 3.0 license is chosen).
    Alternative, expand the model for the licenses to include an “or
    later” concept.
  - 632, others – not yet discussed.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
