## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Michael Herzog
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kate Stewart
  - Marshall Clow
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Brandon Robinson

## Agenda

  - Review web pages

## Web page update

  - Order of first page – move up current spec
  - Add link to spdx.org/tools, possibly top page
  - Add FAQ link in tech team page

## 1.1 Discussion

  - [Bug 1023](https://bugs.linuxfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1023) -
    sec 5.4 terminology is inconsistent with RDF vocabulary used in
    license list:
      - Discussion on owl:sameAs. If used, must be unique (e.g. not
        reference multiple licenses on the same “owl:sameAs” web page).
        Would like to use the same RDF term for both License and
        ExtractedLicensingInfo. Some of the different standard licenses
        point to the same URL. Agree that rdfs:seeAlso may be more
        appropriate for current usage (although both are valuable terms
        to use).
      - Discussion on tag name. Two proposals for the definition of the
        term – 1) a reference to the canonical form of the license as
        the source of the license id; 2) a more general reference to a
        URL that contains information on the license (e.g.
        cross-reference). General agreement this term will refer to
        other URL’s that contain information about the license (as
        opposed to the canonical source of the license).
      - Proposal: use rdfs:seeAlso for rdf and “crossReference: “ for
        tag/value. The rdfs:seeAlso is restricted to URL. The RDF term
        would be used for both ExtractedLicensingInfo and License.
      - Will close on this in next week’s meeting.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
