## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Peter William
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Marshall Clow
  - Brandon Robinson
  - Ed Warnicke

## Agenda

  - Use cases

## Linux Con

  - Marshall – no to Tuesday (available Thursday/Friday, but not Tuesday
    or Wednesday)
  - Jack and Kate will be available
  - Black Duck will have some representation, but not sure who at this
    point
  - Peter will not be available
  - Ed Warnicke will be available
  - Brandon and Gary – don’t know yet

## 1.1 Release

  - 2 new bug from Gary’s review of the spec and vocabulary. Likely just
    details that can be fixed in the spec.

## Use Cases

  - SPDX Lite use case
      - Would like to include Kate on the discussion before finalizing.
      - Agreed to separate out the definition of the use case from the
        decision to implement a use case.
      - Inconsistency between having the checksum in the Scenerio and
        the goal statement indicating files change frequently. Drop
        checksum from the list. This is included in the validation use
        case. Added to the validation use case a pointer back to the
        SPDX-Lite use case to remember the possible conflict.
      - Discussion on package level or project level. Project level has
        existing formats (e.g. DOAP). Package level may be too limited
        in scope. Agreed scope should be “copyrightable things”
  - Agreed to use term “OK” in the use case to mean the use case is well
    defined, and not to mean that the use case is agreed to be
    implemented

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
