## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kate Steward
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Ibrahim Haddad
  - Ed Warnicke
  - Peter Williams
  - Brandon Robinson
  - Kirsten Newcomer

## Agenda

  - 1.1
      - Feedback
      - Property name for License “Header” or “Notice”

## 1.1

  - Review/ Feedback – Jack reviewed the tools output. Kate will review
    the spreadsheet
  - Property name for License “Header” or “Notice” or “Notifier” – Bug
    1037
      - Bug documents the discussion to date
      - Apache uses “Notice” to describe the license summary
      - GPL world uses header
      - Legal team is using the term standard license header
      - Discussion on standard license header or license standard header
        to allow license information to be more grouped (by sort order)
      - Agreed on standard license header as the term
      - Peter will update the RDF terms
      - Gary will update the tools
      - Gary to build binaries tomorrow and will make the binaries
        available
      - Request to have the binaries pushed to the git repository of
        find a way to make the intermediate builds available.

## 2.0 Modeling and LinuxCon

  - Peter and Gary will not be able to make it. Suggest we discuss
    models at the F2F meeting proposed. Logistical problems getting the
    F2F meeting together – availability and travel.
  - Proposed modeling discussion using WebEx while at LinuxCon – Tuesday
    4-6 Pacific time. Ed setup the WebEx and emailed out. The meeting
    will be recorded.
  - The model discussion will use the existing model proposals as a
    starting point. We’ll compare them to the use cases.
  - Ed’s proposal can be found here:
    [Technical\_Team/Proposals/Rough\_proposal\_for\_provenance,\_hierarchy\_and\_aggregation,\_and\_supply\_chain\_friendliness\_in\_SPDX\_2.0](Technical_Team/Proposals/Rough_proposal_for_provenance,_hierarchy_and_aggregation,_and_supply_chain_friendliness_in_SPDX_2.0 "wikilink")
  - Gary’s merged proposal can be found here:
    [Technical\_Team/Proposals/2012-02-01/Merged\_Model\_Proposal](Technical_Team/Proposals/2012-02-01/Merged_Model_Proposal "wikilink")
  - Peter’s proposal can be found here:
    [Technical\_Team/Proposals/Yet\_another\_rough\_proposal\_for\_conceptual\_model\_of\_SPDX\_2](Technical_Team/Proposals/Yet_another_rough_proposal_for_conceptual_model_of_SPDX_2 "wikilink")
  - Jack will update the technical website to include these models on a
    separate page for models discussion.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
