## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Savino Sguera
  - Peter Williams
  - Marshal Clow
  - Ed Warnicke
  - Rana Rahal
  - Brandon Robinson

## Agenda

  - Large license text update
  - 1.1 date
  - Discussion on SPDX package definitions
  - Discuss proposal for hierarchical supply chain (bug 818)

## Update on license text

  - Bug 1003 – could just keep the HTML formatting and update the pretty
    printer to interpret the tags
  - Will implement the license text as external text files encoded in
    UTF-8. Spreadsheet will contain a link to the file.

## Collab. Summit

  - Agree we should have a tech team meeting at the Linux Collab. Summit
    in April

SPDX package definitions

## Hierarchical supply chain

  - Ed has been updating the Wiki page with additional details on 1.0
    and 1.1 comparisons to proposed model.
  - Discussion and review or Ed’s proposal
      - Enhanced model for Annotations
      - Mapping table of the SPDX 1.0 sections to the proposed model
          - Package file name – should this be mandatory? In the case of
            the archive file containing the SPDX file itself, does it
            makes sense to include the filename in the SPDX?
          - Package originator – may not required with the supply chain
            model. Discussion about different scenarios (such as there
            is no original SPDX file). May depend on people generating
            SPDX files for the code they bring in.
          - Discussion on annotation types – adding specific types to
            annotations will allow for compatibility with earlier
            versions
          - Discussion on alternative using subclasses for packages
              - Are the properties specific to a package or something
                more general?
              - Conflict with specificer model
                  - Are we overloading the specifier with specifying the
                    properties?
                  - Does RDF already provide the mechanisms for concrete
                    and references to the concrete data?
                  - Agree we should call SPDX Element SPDX Licensable

Gary will do some homework on mapping the properties into a model where
SPDX Package is subclassed from SPDX Licensable. Will also do some
thinking about how to implement the specifier mechanism.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
