## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Kate Stewart
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Ed Warnicke

## Agenda

1.  overview Linux Collab meetings and SPDX summit.
2.  1.1 new optional field proposal: File Comments
3.  2.0 Use Case - status of fill in, owners for remaining?

## Overview Linux collab Meeting

All attendees on the call participated in the face 2 face meeting

## File comments proposal

<https://bugs.linuxfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1017>

  - Proposal was reviewed
  - Added detail to the proposal that a property rdfs:comment would be
    added to file
  - Specific us cases discussed (captured in the use case wiki – “tribal
    knowledge” relating to a file and file origin information
  - Concern raised that the comment may better be served by other
    extension mechanisms
      - Agreed that a possibly more proper extension mechanism is a
        topic for 2.0 and not 1.1
  - Proposal to generalize the definition of the current file license
    comment
      - Concern this may cause a migration problem between 1.0 and 1.1
      - Concern that some of the use cases that rely on the use of the
        license comment field as defined may break (e.g. Auditor use
        case where the auditor expresses the logic behind a file
        concluded license in the file license comment property).
  - Agreement on the call that a file comment field should be added for
    1.1
  - Discussed a related proposal to add a comment property to the
    extracted license info class
      - Discussed the use case and implementation issues as described in
        D.M.’s email
      - Discussed and agreed that a File comment would not be sufficient
      - Agreed in principle to add a comment field to extracted license
        info for 1.1 to solve the use case
          - Information on the proposal (including a new bug) will be
            sent to the mailing list and we will close on the proposal
            next week

## Use Cases

  - Discussed and documented the use cases for the 2 proposals (file
    comment and extracted license text comment
  - Discussed the NDA use case – some complexity in implementation
  - Agreed that many of the use cases need to be fleshed out more
    (especially the new ones added from the SPDX forum)
  - Discussed the next steps and how do we get from documenting use
    cases to deciding on the model
  - Agreed we need to somehow group the use cases
      - Gary to send a proposed process on how to approach grouping use
        cases over the phone
  - Discussed if we should prioritize the use cases
      - Concern that prioritizing may eliminate use cases which are less
        important but require less effort
      - Proposal to use an approach that considered priority and effort
        (e.g. something similar to Pareto)
      - Proposal to use the effort applied to the use case as a
        mechanism to prioritize
          - Use cases which are not detailed out may indicate lack of
            interest by participants in the effort thereby indicating
            lower priority
          - Concern that new members may be disadvantaged by this
            approach
  - Agreed we would mark use cases as to whether they are sufficiently
    specified

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
