## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kate Stewart
  - Peter Williams
  - Ed Warnicke
  - Rana Rahal
  - Brandon Robinson
  - Rana Raha

## Agenda

  - Review minutes from last week
  - Discuss proposal for hierarchical supply chain (bug 818)

Need to figure out planning of breakout session for Linux Collab in
April.

SPDX Licensable vs. SPDX Package - no clear decision from last week of
how SPDX package relates to SPDX licensable.

Three proposals:

  - Ed: original
    [Technical\_Team/Proposals/Rough\_proposal\_for\_provenance,\_hierarchy\_and\_aggregation,\_and\_supply\_chain\_friendliness\_in\_SPDX\_2.0](Technical_Team/Proposals/Rough_proposal_for_provenance,_hierarchy_and_aggregation,_and_supply_chain_friendliness_in_SPDX_2.0 "wikilink")
  - Gary: Updated for property mappings and a proposal for referencing
    SPDX licensable (note that the referencing proposal is not
    considered very complete)
    [Technical\_Team/Proposals/2012-02-01/Merged\_Model\_Proposal](Technical_Team/Proposals/2012-02-01/Merged_Model_Proposal "wikilink")
  - Peter (Licensable incorporated into Package) from mail list.

Discussion on annotations - when can it be used?

  - Example: a license header that is incorrect creeps into source,
    email permission from author to correct header prior to release of
    the package.
  - Example: producer after SPDX is created - sign combined entity only?

Annotation - include information you need.

Failure mode example - inbound some source code, upstream too lazy to do
it, don't want to be bound by all rights reserved.. but want to put on
SPDX data.

Discussion on concluded license vs. declared license - Ed asserting is
it really is not needed if we have annotations. Conflicting assertions -
arbitrary subsequent opinions may be problematic, using current model.

Example for discussion:

Individual has created SPDX file, 2 files in high level directory,

The asserted license in the SPDX document is incorrect (inconsistent
with text in the distribution). How is this handled with annotations and
make it clear it is an issue with the asserted license and not a new
conclusion on the license?

Basically there exists some complex scenarios as to when you need fine
semantic differences to be explicit. GPLv3 is going to be lots of
opportunity for confusion adding in to mess.

To what extent is the review field able to compensate for annotations?

Under discussion.

Very complicated networks that emerge, and want to know providence.

Want to preserve this... duplicate vs. backward chains. (copy or
annotate on backward chain).

How to get closure & conclusions? Mixing a couple of things here:

1.  how SPDX licenseable elements refer to one another - problem that
    needs to be solved.
2.  what is the model for an SPDX document (licensable, but what else is
    really needed, and what is modeled)
3.  heirarchy mechanisms - URI/hashed/etc. (annotations vs. concluded
    licenses vs. reviewers.)

Concern: supply chain day, can use this as a way of picking brains once
these proposals are fleshed out and structured for more working
conversation. Collaborative to work through problems rather than
marketing to people. Ed wants to have input from technical team into
agenda.

Assertion that all the proposals are wrong size - either too big or too
small. Too much vague around the edges. Reach conclusion and agree on.

Can we disconnect the mechanism we use for linking Licensable elements
from the model? Proposed as a way to move the discussion forward.

Some of the proposals for the linkage mechanism work well for RDF but
not for tag/value.

Gary proposed there may be a way to represent the RDF in a text file in
a readable format using triplets.

Gary to send ideas.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
