## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Kate Stewart
  - Peter Williams
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Marshall Clow
  - Ed Warnicke
  - Rana Rahal

## Agenda

  - 1.1 spec
  - Signing proposals

## 1.1 Spec

Verification code has not been tested. A single implementation in the
SPDX tools has been provided, but has not been verified. We have not
heard anything back on the Python implementation.

Proposal to move forward as specified.

Kate will review bug DB and update spec.

Peter will update RDF terms, then Gary will update the tools app and
compare the doc to the RDF to the tools implementation.

Kate to put draft licensing changes in SPEC and get signoff from legal
team

## 2.0 Specification - Signing proposals

  - Backwards compatibility requirements

<!-- end list -->

  - Ed asserts that there are mandatory fields in 1.0 that do not make
    sense in the supply chain scenarios.

§ Proposal to review these mandatory fields and decide if they make some
of these mandatory fields as optional in version 2.0

§ Agree to discuss what is mandatory and what is not in the in person
meeting

§ Agree to document use cases

  - Agree that signing is optional

<!-- end list -->

  - Compatibility – inline would probably break existing tools if the
    document was signed

<!-- end list -->

  - Put to a vote – Most participants expressed the opinion that both
    would work. Vote yielded a majority to the detached proposal. Rana –
    pass, Marshall – pass , both should work, Jack – detached, Gary –
    detached, Bill – detached, Kirsten – detached, at that point it was
    clear that we had trended to detached, so voting stopped.

## Plan for the face to face meeting

  - Wednesday PM session: discussion of Use Cases & Mandatory field
    migration from 1.0 to 2.0

<!-- end list -->

  - Thursday AM: proposal and discussion with wider group on what fields
    do it make sense to change what is mandatory, and what is not. Get
    wider group feedback – before moving forward

<!-- end list -->

  - Thursday PM: Working through Ed's wider 2.0 proposal, incorporating
    feedback from earlier sessions on mandatory fields vs. not, and
    whiteboarding against the use cases.

## Pre-work before Face to Face

  - Create a table of the mandatory fields and properties, and list the
    use cases that support and those that are contraindicated by them.
    Have this work done before we get to face to face meeting. - Kate
    put a wiki page framework up. Others to add use cases against the
    fields as they think of them.

<!-- end list -->

  - Create a consolidated use cases for 2.0 list. Bill has transferred
    work from pad onto this site. All – please review and add other
    cases for consideration.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
