## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Marshall Clow
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kate Stewart
  - Michael Herzog
  - Jack manbeck

## Agenda

  - Collab Summit Planning
  - Model Discussion
  - Updates

## Collab Summit Planning

  - Wednesday tools discussion and hackathon
  - Tuesday Morning tech team face to face. Modeling discussion will be
    one of the topics.

## Modeling

  - Gary will update the model based on last week’s discussion and post
    a new graphic and the input data for the model
  - Snippets discussion on modeling options w.r.t.
    [Technical\_Team/Proposals/2012-02-01/Merged\_Model\_Proposal](Technical_Team/Proposals/2012-02-01/Merged_Model_Proposal "wikilink")
      - Proposal to direct subclass SpdxFile inherits licenseData,
        annotation, generic sPDXElementRelationship, fileName, fileType
        ; extended to include a byte range
      - Alternative proposal to extend the existing SpdxFile to include
        a file range
      - Alternative proposal to have a snippet be a direct subclass of
        SPDXElement (inherits licenseData, annotation, generic
        sPDXElementRelationship) and have an association to a file.
          - also have a special relationship(s) between Snippet-Snippet,
            Snippet-File (a relationship to the file it is contained in,
            in this package, and perhaps some external file (different
            byte range?) described in another SPDXDoc (from another
            package)
  - Do we need to include the byte range?
      - Byte range adds complexity
      - Do we need this level?
      - Verification use cases may need this?
  - Thought to use annotations for the byte range
  - Conclusions:
      - We should capture the byte range within a file
      - The choice of where we model the snippet is open
      - Bill will send out an email to solicit input from the mailing
        list
      - Annotation concept: should SPDX model have some 'standard'
        Annotations? Need to flesh out. Recall a suggested application
        of Annotation was to indicate a Change/Edit of data in a
        referenced SPDXDoc. (e.g. in the referenced SPDXDoc is says
        SPDXElement has licenseData X. My Annotation amends that to say
        it has licenseData Y).
          - Another Annotation application: adding non-standard
            properties to an SPDXElement (known/understood only by
            parties in the know, but non-breaking)
          - At all applicable to indicating the byte range of a contains
            Relationship?

## Updates

  - Kate traveling next week in Asia and will not be able to join the
    call

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
