June 11, 2013

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kate Stewart
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Michael Herzog
  - Marshall Clow
  - Mark Gisi
  - Debbie McGlade

## Agenda

  - 1.2 planning

## 1.2 planning

  - 1.2 date – target Linuxcon
  - Currently, the only documentation is in Bugzilla
  - Proposal to add file level notices – bug 1131. Optional field.
  - Proposal for package contributors/credit/authors.. Mark will send
    out a proposal.
  - Target the SPDX license template for 1.2 – Gary to draft proposed
    spec language \[note – Gary will not be on the calls through July
    4\]
  - Package download mechanism field bug – considered for 1.2. Covers
    version control system use cases. Similar to project home page bug
    1109. Should be considered together. Target for 1.2.
  - Jack offered to help spec some of the 1.2 changes – will ping Kate.
  - Bug 1120 – GPL 2.0 and GPL 2.0 and later – decided this should be a
    Legal team discussion. Michael will raise at the next legal team
    meeting.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
