April 8, 2014

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Michael Herzog
  - Mark Gisi
  - Scott Sterling
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Sameer Ahmed
  - Kate Stewart
  - Matt Germonprez

## Agenda

  - Relationship and Usage

## Relationship and Usage

### Sameer's use case and relationship list from April 8

  - Gary - what’s contained in source offer?
  - Ahmed: build from and build script - can include configuration of
    makefile in there.
  - Mark: what ever you need to satisfy the obligation of the
    distribution would go there.
  - Gary: was reading it as being restricted to source code.
  - Mark: open to refining. refinement: “Source, archive, and any
    other”.
  - Add this use case to our set of SPDX 2.0 use cases?
      - No objections. So yes will include with refinement.
  - MetaFile vs. SPDXFile vs. SourceOffer - need to call them out extra?
      - Mark - finds from early experiences, likes to see pulled out.
      - Jack - is MetaFile more a usage? Mark - notices.txt, license.txt
        - can use this to create a dependency. That is the motivation.
      - Kate - multiple ways may lead to confusion? What happens if
        multiples - is ok?
      - Mark: yes, it should work. This is part of relationship
        identifiers.
      - Jack: If we want to get source offer added to the spec, we need
        get legal team involved. What about buildFrom? Mark: ok with
        name change. Maybe distribution artifact. Jack: SoureOffer is a
        loaded term. Uses it as here are the notices, and source code.
        which constitutes the SourceOffer.

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Jack: if bsd code and link with bsd binary. I have a binary and
        here is all my information.
      - Mark: Adding LGPL, etc makes it more interesting. In the supply
        chain this has value.
      - Michael: In some point people will do actual builds, but if they
        don’t do builds but just use prebuilt binaries - what are the
        inherited obligations. Its a way to pass the compliance
        relationship downstream.
      - Jack: Its a relationship - has to point to another element of
        “something”. Whether this is built from or source offer.
        Semantically different, but sort of same.
      - Michael: Source Offer - example of distributing a toolchain.
        Relationship isn’t always apparent.

Mark: End user may not care about how the building works, just the
obligations.

  -   - Bill: is this file types or relationships?
      - Mark: we view this as relationships.
      - Bill: is everything point from one SPDX element to another?
      - Mark: yes.

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Jack: We need another term than SourceOffer - will be a
        lightening term.
      - Mark: OK with DistributionArtifact.
      - Gary: Possibly we should have LicenseFile, NoticeFile - instead
        of MetaFile?
      - Possible definition: MetaFile - any file that has a description
        of a package that is not required for compilation….
      - Mark: Have shown what we have found useful, not exactly what
        gets put in the Spec. Key is be able to represnt what we are
        finding today.
      - Gary: OK, we’ll just come up with a more general definition,
        rather than do the splitting.

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Mark: Went through parameters of usage for zlib. Raw analysis
        shows what can do in modify and don’t modify cases. Once you use
        it (“usage”), then you have to start interpreting the licensing
        information. Analysis results are what is documented in usage.

### Review Usage and Relationship Enumerations from Gary's Email on April 4

  - If anyone has existing definition for these, chime up.

<!-- end list -->

  - \_partOf and \_contained - may be redundant.
  - \_generatedFrom - could be same as buildFrom.
  - \_revisionOf may overlap with \_modifies

<!-- end list -->

  - Kate: favoring keeping \_partOf \_generatedFrom \_modifiedBy
    \_revisionOf
  - Gary: with the inverse between \_partOf and \_contains.
  - Mark: contains is good because we are starting to think about
    packages as container.

\_contains and \_containedBy

  - Mark: maybe \_containedWithin
  - Jack: we are effectively creating a BOM with elements - maybe we
    should see if we can see if there is some folk that have solved.
    ACTION: Jack: volunteering to look for prior art that might fit.

<!-- end list -->

  - Jack - can you be a part of something without being contained
    within? Gary: need to come up with example to illustrate this before
    we keep it in.

<!-- end list -->

  - Basically - we want to have bidirectional.

<!-- end list -->

  -   - \_generates and \_generatedFrom

  - Basically close enough to builtFrom so lets go with the more general
    which is \_generated.

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Bill: XML and JAVA file, transformation from XML to JAVA class
        of Beans.

<!-- end list -->

  - Next week: pick up Usage from Gary’s note.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
