August 5, 2014

## Attendees

  - Gary O'Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Scott Sterling
  - Kate Stewart
  - Mark Gisi

## Agenda

  - 
## Review or RDF documentation

  - licenseInfoInFile - do we keep it? How is it different from declared
    license and concluded license for a file?
      - Is there a need for declared license?
      - We need a better distinction between licenseInfoInFile,
        declaredLicense, and concludedLicense (especially between the
        first two)
      - Declared license is a statement by the copyright holder.
        licenseInfoInFile is the actual text found.
      - Example:
          - licenseInfoInFile = MIT
          - licenseInfoInFile = BSD 4 clause
          - licenseInfoInFile = GPL 2+
          - licenseInfoInFile = LicenseRef-22
          - licenseDeclared = (MIT and BSD 4 clause and GPL2+ and
            LicenseRef-22)
          - licenseConcluded = GPL2+
      - agree to keep licenseInfoInFile and it is NOT a subproperty of
        licenseConcluded
      - What is the precise definition for declared license? General the
        language from the spec for package.
      - agree to keep licenseConcluded - the definition will be a
        generalization of the package licenseConcluded in 1.2
      - should licenseConcluded be optional? NOASSERTION is really the
        optional component
      - Definitions:
          - licenseInfoInFile = a single license ID per actual licensey
            text found IN this (text) file.

(This is ideal field for a scanner to populate. Four possible kinds of
values 'none', 'noassertion', SPDXID, LicenseRef-ID)

  -   - licenseDeclared = (NEW for 2.0 - can be applied to any
        copyrightable SPDXItem, including all the way down to File) =

('licenseDeclared' was a license EXPRESSION at Package level only) NOW:
'licenseDeclared' licenses declared by the authors of the ITEM (where
ITEM could be a Package, File, even Snippet) ("Three" possible kinds of
values 'none', 'noassertion', or license EXPRESSION)

  -   - licenseConcluded: a license EXPRESSION that is concluded (by a
        reviewer)

("Three" possible kinds of values 'none', 'noassertion', or license
EXPRESSION)

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
