December 8, 2015

## Attendees

  - Gary O'Neall
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kate Stewart
  - Scott Sterling
  - Hassib Khanafir
  - Mark Gisi

## Prior Meetings

  - No minutes taken from last call on Nov 17, lack of quorum. Email of
    pending items sent out by Bill based on request from Mark.
  - No meetings on Nov 24 & Dec 2 due to Thanksgiving holidays.

## Case Sensitivity

  - Discussed license expressions case sensitivity, and everyone
    basically agreed with conclusion from email thread ( Tools should
    not be sensitive to it, but the recommendation is to use upper and
    lower case to aid clarity.)

## Snippets

  - Proposal located at
    <https://docs.google.com/document/d/13OknzNnY56UZhnj_VVPatirBrNze5cWXDx2fnKbBI_g/edit#heading=h.nmf14n>
  - AI: Gary to double check X.2 permits external file references.
  - AI: Yev to create draft of X.7 copyright text best practices note.
  - Reviewed X.8 - no concerns.
  - Reviewed X.9 - discussion on whether it should be name or
    snippetName. Consulted model and fileName and packageName exist - so
    decide on using snippetName for consistency. Note: Spec refers to
    name for package, but model has packageName - which could be
    confusing.
  - Resolved that Snippets can be basically considered ready for
    incorporation into SPEC as long as Gary doesn't have issues with X.2

## AOB

  - Bill: Is there a 2.1 version of the SPEC started?
  - Kate: Yes: (looking up link after call - its:

<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wE_zvLU4c291ACi9wIJmQoE4ltKRW4rzM1TYiIvEVOs/edit>)

Before adding snippets in to it, would like to explore moving it to
something that will work with git going forward.
