April 28, 2015

## Attendees

  - Gary O'Neall
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Scott Sterling
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kate Stewart
  - Mark Gisi
  - Michael Herzog
  - Hassib Khanafer

## Agenda

  - Review proposed changes to SPDX 2.0
  - Remaining items before release
  - Apache tools collaboration

## Review proposed changes to SPDX 2.0

  - Reviewed Jilayne's comment, none and noassertion - we agreed that it
    is a substantial change and would be best to add it as a bug for
    next release. Kate will add to bug list.
  - Mark to contribute some wording improvements to Google Doc

\- instead of Conjunctive/Disjunctive, refer to License Expression
Syntax

## Remaining items before release

  - RDF Terms - Gary to send out email asking for feedback by Friday.
    Gary will also make the RDF ontology source file available.
  - SPDX Tools - Jack will post the latest tools Gary sent him once the
    site is updated.
  - Jack will update site Fri/Sat unless showstopper email from Gary by
    Friday

<!-- end list -->

  - Kate will generate a PDF document and upload to the Wiki within the
    next couple of days

## Apache tools collaboration

  - Kate got feedback from the Linux Foundation - no issues with
    contributing the tools code to Apache.
  - Agreed we should have one umbrella project for all the SPDX Tools
    (analagous to <http://incubator.apache.org/odftoolkit/>) including:
      - re-brand the 'pretty printer' as a Validator
      - compare tool
      - Maven plugin <https://github.com/goneall/spdx-maven-plugin>
      - University of Nebraska at Omaha tools
      - Samsung provided tools
      - last year's Google Summer of Code tools
  - The more community activity we have on an incubator project, the
    more likely it will graduate from the incubator
  - Gary will reach out to the other SPDX community tools providers
    (Matt/University of Nebraska at Omaha, Samsung, Google Summer of
    Code Contributors) and see if they would support moving their code
    to an Apache incubator project.
  - Once we have the list of tools pulled together, Kate will reach out
    to her contact at Apache for sponsorship.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
