March 3, 2015

## Attendees

  - Gary O'Neall
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Scott Sterling
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Kate Stewart
  - Brandon Robinson
  - Hassib Khanafir
  - Michael Herzog

## Agenda

  - Review points for the SPDX 2.0 Press Release
  - Update on call with Github
  - Updates to the spec

## Press Release Review

  - Reviewed email provided by Jack

Suggested Edits:

  - Multiple packages can now be described in a single SPDX document
    allowing aggregation of information that should be kept together.
  - Relationships between packages, files - and external SPDX documents
    - can now be described. This is a powerful capability that allows
    individual SPDX documents to reference each other. Relationships
    allow the modeling of software reuse and packaging of arbitrary
    complexity. For example, software passed through a supply chain,
    binary-only delivery, documenting a hierarchy of sub-packages,
    documenting the origin of an SPDX element (downstream relationship
    to upstream), and documenting modifications or corrections
    (annotations) to an SPDX element. Each SPDX document can then
    describe the licensing of just those pieces. As a consumer of these
    SPDX documents you should now be able to easily get a clearer
    picture of the licensing mix for relevant pieces.
  - Annotations have expanded upon and replaced Review comments, and can
    be provided on any specific element in an SPDX document. In previous
    versions there were specific comment fields. With annotations
    comments can be applied to anything including annotations allowing
    more flexibility.
  - A new License expression syntax has been introduced with improved
    license matching guidelines. The improved syntax makes it much
    easier and more reliable to capture complex licensing in a file.
  - Additional file types & checksum algorithms are now supported. The
    file types have been greatly expanded allowing for more precise
    identification of a file.
  - SPDX can now reference software pulled from Version Control Systems,
    in addition to software served as downloads. This recognizes
    alternative ways of distributing software.

License List

  - License list has been expanded significantly since SPDX 1.2 (from
    XXX licenses to YYY licenses and growing)
  - Exceptions to licenses are now captured separately and have their
    own list. This allows for greater flexibility in expressing xxx and
    reduces the number slightly different licenses on the main list.

## Update on call with Github

  - Git repo's will be mirrored on Github
  - Brandon from Github is providing support for SPDX (mirroring the Git
    Repos, may do pull requests)
  - Discussed the need to clarify using the license list vs. creating
    SPDX document (will pick up discussion at the business team).

## Spec update

  - License text - added example for when full license text is not
    available
  - Package file name - Updated to allow for subdirectories to be
    referenced for a package (bug 1190)

## Next Week

  - Finalize any additional changes for SPDX 2.0
  - Snippets
  - Maven Artifact References

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
