Sept 8, 2015

## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart
  - Bill Schineller
  - Scott Sterling
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Hassib Khanafer

## Snippets

  - Concluded license on snippets - change rdf:about attributes to
    unique ID of file.
  - Need to replace "SPDX File" with "SPDX Document" everywhere.
      - Decided to make the change for 2.1 and not rev in 2.0
  - Change "Concluded License" spec attribute name to "Snippet Concluded
    License".
      - Change "Concluded License" in File and Package accordingly.
  - Naming of "Snippet Concluded License" section inconsistent with tag
    name "snippetLicenseConcluded", but this is consistent with the
    files section ("LicenseConcluded" tag, but "Concluded License"
    header).
  - Should add use examples under Snippet Information heading.
  - Discussed why the reference to COPYING in the Concluded License
    section. Change "analyze" to "reconcile" to better suggest the use
    case of license for snippet as indicator of license conflicts.
  - Add difference of concluded license between snippets and files as a
    scenario for a Snippet Comment on License into section X.5.1
  - Should "NOASSERTION" be available for snippet license? Decided that
    it is, in fact, quite likely.
  - Update example of snippet license comments to include prototypical
    example of a snippet being the result of a copy\&paste from a
    different source.
  - Clarified the example language in 5.5, need to change 5.6 to match.
  - Multiple changes from "file" to "snippet" in copied\&pasted text.
  - Defined more appropriate example for Snippet Comment.

Kate to clean up SPDX commentary. We all agree that once the discussed
changes are made, the change can be added to the master 2.1 spec. May
need to revisit 0 and 1.

Next week, revisit external IDs, Kate to post comments from Stefano on
spdx-tech prior to next meeting. -DONE

LWN news: good writeup of debsource DB. Mentions generating SPDX.

Supply chain workshop on October 8 in Dublin. (Stefano and Uday).
<http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/linuxcon-europe/extend-the-experience/supply-chain-summit>

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
