Oct. 25, 2016

## Attendees

  - Kris Reeves
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Bill
  - Yev
  - Kate
  - Scott
  - Mark Baushke
  - Brad Edmonson

## License XML

Joint call with legal team Purpose close on as many items as we can for
XML license format for the tools working with license list.

Encoding: UTF-8 to be consistent with other SPDX documents. • Kris
agrees with this. Should be a fairly easy task to add to synomyms over
time. • MB - is non-conformant UTF-8 an error? Gary - Yes, it should be
an error. +1 Kris.

Document to be reviewed: License XML Elements and Attributes

MB: Wants to be human readable as possible List of elements and terms to
be added to template?

Element: SPDX

Discussion on ways to group collection of these? Gary - Possibly retain
higher level SPDX name Kris - License tag in github, not sure about
including SPDX in title. Gary - prefers to see SPDX in tag as it makes
it consistent with others Kris - agrees and is ok with
SPDXLicenseCollection

Element: notes

Discussion on when making comment about a license, vs. comment on use of
license. Jilayne - not sure that LicenseComment from 6.5 is really the
same as notes field in license listproposal. Kris - reminding that this
is just structured information, and free form is most useful here.
Jilayne - notes field includes only fact (eg., ref’s should only be date
license was released, if author has deprecated,, other factual
infomation, etc.) no interpretations Gary - could add comment field? no
obvious conclusion here, want to look for things to ensure we don’t
prevent expansion of notes field to be structured data. Jilayne -
reminder of goal of this is too make license list more parsable for
tools. Gary - conclusion: keep name as to change this to “notes”, and
not have comment at this time.

Element: header

Gary - too long, but too late - we’ve got this elsewhere. Kris -
dislikes length, but it makes it clearer so ok.

Element: body

Kris - decided this element will be removed. Delete.

Element: copyright

Gary - copyrightText more consistent with spec. Jilayne ok with this.

Element: li

Gary - everyone ok with changing it to “item” Kris - supportive of not
making it like html to avoid namespace issues. Jilayne - ok if Kris ok.

Element: b

Kris - agrees change from b to bullet is ok, will live with it. Jilayne
- not thrilled, but sees why. Kris - clarity trumps. Some thoughts on
input vs. output, but probably best to keep consistent. Possibly just
put on its own line.

Element: p

Kris - using <paragraph> is ok and clearer, mixing psuedo html is
causing more problems, so leaning to clarity. Jilayne - \<p\> concise is
nices. Brad - \<p\> to mean what it does everyone else. Jilayne -
preference to stay with \<p\> Gary - tentative conclusion to leave it as

and give Yev and the tech team a chance to respond since there was a
previous conclusion to not use HTML tags as element names.

Element: br

Jilayne - has a purpose for without adding space. Pro-html tag. Kris -
parity with html helps us here. Concern is html and xml properly
formated (use of \<br /\>)

Element: header

Jilayne - lets defer this to next rev. Lots of inconsistency in the
text. General comments and agreement on this for next releases.

AI: Gary to check with Yev and tech team AI: Kate to share with Gary and
Jilayne. - DONE. :-) AI: Gary to post on tech team minutes, Jilayne to
link from legal

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
