January 5, 2016

## Attendees

  - Gary O'Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Kate Stewart
  - Scott Sterling
  - Mark Gisi

## Updates to 2.1

  - External references - Should we not have defaults for some of the
    fields? Example - Debian - what is the latest today may not be the
    appropriate default for tomorrow
  - Draft for external ID's will be available next Week (action for
    Bill)

## License JSON Format

  - 
## Joint call with Legal on Templatization for the License List input format

## Schedule of calls

  - Next week - external ID's
  - Following week - joint call with Legal on templatization input
    format for license list
  - Following week - external ID's
  - Following weeks before collab - bugs and doc review
  - Collab Summit
      - \- walk through of the spec - goal to close on the 2.1 spec
      - Examples of the new features for 2.1
      - Could start developing the new tools in a branch
          - Need to communicate this well since there are now multiple
            people contributing pull requests

## Bug Reviews

  - Assigned un-assigned bugs
  - Discussed ArtifactOf bug - Propose to deprecate ArtifactOf once we
    complete external ID's
  - Discussion on NOASSERTION - notes captured in the bug, sending it to
    legal
      - Would be good to have a best practice for the case of
        proprietary or "all rights reserved" licenses included in an
        SPDX document (common when doing an audit of a commercial
        software product)

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
