Oct. 11, 2016

## Attendees

  - Gary O'Neall
  - Yev Bronsh
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Scott Sterling

## Update from LinuxCon

  - BMW using SPDX to generate notices
  - Yev presented SPDX talk
  - Bake-off
      - Notes are in the bake-off folder:
        <https://docs.google.com/document/d/14yMu5Ecy0_rvaEkcFFp6ganR4QGrDd3gNYe4u4cQ66Q/edit>
      - Discussed the different results and some of the tooling issues
        found. Overall, identified some good next practices
      - Yev will writeup a proposal for SPDX use in container (see
        mailing list discussion)

## License XML

  - Completed a first pass of all proposed terms – notes are documented
    in the google doc at
    <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z9n44xLH2MxT576KS_AbTOBtecyl5cw6RsrrQHibQtg/edit?usp=sharing>
  - Formatting tags conclusions:
      - Some of the formatting tags have semantics – such as ignoring
        bullets. These should be included in the RDF form of the
        license.
      - Some of the formatting tags are strictly formatting – such as
        br. These will not be included in the RDF, but will be used to
        generate the HTML.
      - We should use terms more human readable and different from the
        HTML tags – e.g. newline instead of br. 2 reasons – more human
        readable for those not familiar with HTML and they do represent
        2 different problem spaces and should use distinct terms.
  - Syn conclusions:
      - Include a single XML file dictionary in release one in the
        output XML that can be used to lookup synonyms
      - Release 2, include a synonym tag in the generated XML. Reason:
        need to discuss if we can have license specific synonyms.
      - For RDF reference <https://www.w3.org/TR/wordnet-rdf/> as a
        synonym language

## Upcoming Meetings

  - Next week – results of the bake-off and FAQ’s
  - Week after next – Yev’s presentation

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
