February 9, 2016

## Attendees

  - Gary O'Neall
  - Kate Stewart
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Kris Reeves
  - Bill Schineller
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Scott Sterling
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Michael Herzog

## License Templatization

This was a joint call with Legal to discuss the input format for the
license list to review of Kris' "master" XML files found at
<https://github.com/myndzi/license-list/tree/xml-test/src>

  - Should we use the standard SPDX names (from spec/RDF) for elements
    (e.g. licenseId instead of identifier)?
      - Advantage in consistency
      - Disadvantage, there is not a 1:1 mapping
      - Since this is an input format and not an output format,
        standardization may not be as required
      - Proposal: not require standard ID's
  - Need to align with matching guidelines; Kris identified questions in
    his email about this. Will need to align process with matching
    guidelines and revise matching guidelines as well (help from legal
    team here). We will hit upon thing for which a bright line rule is
    difficult.
  - Optional sections of the markup - what are the semantics?
      - Proposed: optional sections have meaning ONLY in the context of
        matching licenses. They specify sections of text that NEED NOT
        be matched. When \*presenting\* license contents, optional
        sections SHOULD be included (e.g. display on the SPDX website)
  - Can we change the Github display so that it wraps?
      - Would require changes to "hand-wrap" license content in HTML
          - From Kris after the meeting: I see significant benefits to
            this from a review and editing point of view, but it might
            require more markup to properly output/format the license
            data, akin to HTML’s
            tag. This might be worth having anyway for formatting
            reasons – relying on line breaks in XML is not a good
            practice. These tags can be added automatically, but may
            reduce legibility somewhat. They will allow more control
            over outputting a well-formatted text copy of a license
            while being able to edit the license in a more user-friendly
            appearance, perhaps.
  - How much legal review is needed?
      - Most likely will need to review all of them
  - Improvements in matching code: e.g. limits on Regex matches; limit
    on \# of characters for replaceable text (no limit in current
    markup); what is meant by optional and subset of optional text,
    which includes title, copyright, and extraneous text at bottom as
    per guidelines (title tag purpose is to identify part that is
    optional; not to identify the “full name” as it appears on th the
    spreadsheet - if we wanted that, it would need a separate,
    additional tag)
      - Not included in this pass, Would like to improve - next pass
  - Process for maintaining the license list
      - Review current proposed XML on Github; Can create one pull
        request per license
      - Can use Kris' tool to make it easier to review and edit -
        provides color visual of different tags. Legal team members will
        need to be able to use
      - Can test the XML against the current spreadsheet/output
  - Discussion of web-base tool on spdx.org/license to compare licenses
    / find licenses
      - Can be written in JavaScript eliminated the need for a servlet
        engine to run this on the website
          - Kris expressed interest in writing such a tool once the new
            license formats are ready
  - Process Definition next steps
      - Legal team can pick up front end process
      - Would like to look into the tool Kris wrote to help with the
        review process
      - First pass of the license list
          - Another pass at converting the existing license list to XML
            in light of the determination of "optional" sections.
              - Kris will take a pass at this once the optional sections
                issues have been closed
          - Legal team will do a first pass on the results
          - Proposed process using pull requests
              - Individual pull requests for each license
              - Two people can sign off on each PR simply by posting a
                comment, similar to the NPM process:
                  - Post a comment stating when you plan to tackle a
                    specific item (raise your hand)
                  - Post a comment stating when you’ve approved an item
                    (“LGTM” – looks good to me)
                  - Further tasking can be done in the Github interface,
                    including a sort of checkbox list of “things that
                    need to be done for this release” – investigate,
                    perhaps?
      - Develop the code to build the source xml files into the
        publishable xml files for use by tools
      - Update the publishing tools to use the new XML file formats

### Summary of Action Items

  - Decide on / confirm the semantic meaning of optional sections of the
    markup.
      - Proposed: optional sections have meaning ONLY in the context of
        matching licenses. They specify sections of text that NEED NOT
        be matched. When \*presenting\* license contents, optional
        sections SHOULD be included (e.g. display on the SPDX website)
  - Decide on whether to use the standard SPDX tags in the master
    (source) files
      - Proposal: Don't require the same tags
  - Decide on a process for producing a complete first pass of the
    license conversion
      - Take another pass at converting the licenses to XML in light of
        the determination about “optional” sections.
          - Kris will provide a second pass once the optional sections
            action item has been closed
      - Proposed process: Individual pull requests for each license. Two
        people can sign off on each PR simply by posting a comment.
  - Develop the code to build the source xml files into the publishable
    xml files for use by tools (essentially, add tags for all the
    synonym stuff)
  - Update the publishing tools to use the source XML files to publish
    files for the website
      - Gary will update the tools once the new XML file formats are
        available

### Items requiring Further discussion/investigation

  - Decide on what state we need to be in to be eligible for a release
    of the new templates
      - Include “better” (not “.+”) match expressions for the matching
        sections?
      - Fill out markup for licenses that don’t have it?
      - Find/include missing license header instructions? (Possibly:
        licenses with “optional” sections that don’t have a “header”
        section)
      - Is it worth hard-wrapping license contents so they are more
        accessible through the Github UI?
      - Should we normalize the license contents where possible? (Remove
        strange low-ascii, remove UTF-8 when possible \[should always be
        possible\], use a consistent newline separator)
          - Proposal from Kris to normalize the contents

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
