August 8, 2017

## Joint technical/legal call

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Thomas Steenberg
  - Anna Buhman
  - Kate Stewart
  - Matija Suklje
  - Dennis Clark
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Trevor King
  - Paul Maddick
  - Phil Odence
  - John Sullivan
  - David Wheeler
  - Uday Shankar
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Karen Copenhaver
  - Hung Chang

<!-- end list -->

  - See: WIKI page for background

<https://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/or-later-vs-unclear-disambiguation>

  - Default for GPL license is or later, unless specified, and our id
    GPL-3.0 assumes only, rather than or later.

<!-- end list -->

  - Desire is to get to clarity without too much disruption.

<!-- end list -->

  - David Wheeler: needs to be some way to distinguish between only
    or-later. Back compatibility is good though. There is a third case,
    hard to figure if its only or or-later. Tools will give you wrong
    info. Tool found this license text and not making any assertion.

Tools are a key part of this infrastructure - be able to generate
without forcing them to lie.

  - Phil: Some tools can tell

<!-- end list -->

  - David: Distinguishing this is sometimes an english prose exercise is
    hard.

<!-- end list -->

  - Jilayne: File level license text, example when standard header
    language with removal of “or later” - tool can make direct hit. What
    identifier is used for full text of license?

<!-- end list -->

  - David: Likes use of -only, but thinks the ambiguous case needs to be
    captured.

<!-- end list -->

  - Gary: Agrees useful to capture 3 different states.

<!-- end list -->

  - Jilayne: License itself gives guidance, but looking outside the
    license text is needed. 5 files, 1 with text of GPL 2.0 license and
    4 source files without any license info whatsoever. What is the
    short identifier to use for the license file? What is the Concluded
    License for 4 source files?

<!-- end list -->

  - Dennis: totally agreed with Gary

<!-- end list -->

  - Trevor: Get “only” handling.

<!-- end list -->

  - John: If not explicit you can choose any version.

<!-- end list -->

  - John: Worry about misuse of that category. One of the concerns with
    having identifier that is ambiguous, has been misused in the past.
    Part of interest and support is because SPDX is aspirational to help
    get things cleaned up. Current tooling. For SPDX to achieve its
    goal, better to not deliberately cover case or lax clarity.

<!-- end list -->

  - David Wheeler - only, or-later, “at-least”. Tools can look at
    license text - can’t tell I don’t know. Should be reporting at
    “at-least”.

<!-- end list -->

  - Gary: If author and originator of code, forcing them to justify. In
    the tooling and human audit has value.

<!-- end list -->

  - Kate: noassertion exists for ambiguity.

<!-- end list -->

  - David: don’t need detail and analysis - GPL indicator is sufficient.
    I propose "only", "or later", and "at least".

<!-- end list -->

  - Jilayne: 5 files, 1 with text of GPL 2.0 license and 4 source files
    without any license info whatsoever. What is the short identifier to
    use for the license file? What is the Concluded License for 4 source
    files?

<!-- end list -->

  - John: Need to follow up with use case.

<!-- end list -->

  - John: Any way to return two possibilities? GPL-2.0-only OR
    GPL-2.0-or-later

Could indicate this?

  - Jilayne: Right now GPL-2.0 means GPL-2.0-only

So at this point we haven’t changed meaning. Putting back GPL-2.0+.

  - Trevor: OR means pick a license, choice 1 or 2 - what is probablity
    of either. Don’t know what the real option. GPL-2.0 is in all the
    possible sets, so use it.

<!-- end list -->

  - David: For the cases encountered, knowing its at least GPL-2.0 is
    good enough. Yes, I’ve dealt with it and done.

<!-- end list -->

  - Gary: If designing this from scratch - are 3 states useful? Probably
    useful here. Solve the backwards compatibility in another manner.

<!-- end list -->

  - Dennis: I think we should vote on Gary's proposal before this
    meeting is over.

I think it addresses all of the issues. KS

  - Kate Stewart: Would like to make sure FSF as license author is ok
    with it, before we vote.
  - Gary: propose that introduce “only” operator. Keep “+” for
    “or-later”. For compatibility, deprecate GPL-2.0 to be used with
    “only operator”. GPL-2.0 is the license text.

<!-- end list -->

  - David: Just remove the word “only” in the license name. Just getting
    developers to include any license is a major step forward.

<!-- end list -->

  - Discussions with John, David, Gary on variants.

<!-- end list -->

  - Trevor: what about cases with multiple licenses Apache & GPL? We
    have in SPDX document with LicensesFoundInFile is meant to capture
    this with no assertion of relation between them. However Github
    doesn’t show this.

<!-- end list -->

  - Thomas: 99.9% of all Javascript - just look at license in package
    JSON file.

<!-- end list -->

  - Gary: different use cases of software. Author trust, tool then some
    of these cases.

<!-- end list -->

  - David: License expression needs to express summary of information
    necessary to figure out.

<!-- end list -->

  - Thomas: Rename GPL tag to be from family. Simply unknown or don’t
    want to specify, don’t think deprecating and switching tags is good
    idea with nodeworld. Would be a massive operation taking years.
    Easier to change our definition. Add the -only flag for those who
    are specific. Instead of forcing 1000s of developers to upgrade.

<!-- end list -->

  - 
  - Action Items:
      - Gary to move proposal up to top of WIKI page, in light of the
        call.
      - John to circle back with FSF - about reality of people not
        identifying one way or another.
      - Revisit on legal call, and pick up then. Esp. how it plays to
        other licenses.

<!-- end list -->

  - Paul agrees.

<!-- end list -->

  - To be followed up on August 17th on Legal call.

<!-- end list -->

  - Notes from hangout:
      - Jilayne (12:03) -
        <https://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/or-later-vs-unclear-disambiguation>
      - Dennis Clark (12:04) -
        <https://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/or-later-vs-unclear-disambiguation#Gary_O.27Neall_8.2F3.2F2017>
      - Dennis Clark (12:05) - big turnout indeed \!
      - David A. Wheeler (12:06) - Dennis Clark: Agreed, big turnout\!
      - Kate Stewart (12:13) -
        <https://wiki.spdx.org/view/Legal_Team/or-later-vs-unclear-disambiguation#Gary_O.27Neall_8.2F3.2F2017>
      - Trevor King (12:16) -
        <https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/blob/7ecb7363bc82aedd0e293ca8825e348181619e6a/src/GPL-2.0.xml#L235-L239>
      - Dennis Clark (12:20) - totally agreed with Gary
      - David A. Wheeler (12:31) - I propose "only", "or later", and "at
        least".
      - Dennis Clark (12:37) - I think we should vote on Gary's proposal
        before this meeting is over.
      - Dennis Clark (12:37) - I think it addresses all of the issues.
      - Kate Stewart (12:38) - Would like to make sure FSF as license
        author is ok with it, before we vote.
      - Kate Stewart (12:41) - GPL-2.0 --\> GPLv2.0-only
      - Kate Stewart (12:41) - GPL-2.0+ --\> GPLv2.0-or-later
      - Kate Stewart (12:51) - Trevor, LicenseInfoInFile is meant to
        capture this with no assertion of relation between them.
      - Thomas Steenbergen (12:52) - LicenseInfoFromFiles
      - Thomas Steenbergen (12:53) - vs LicenseConcluded
      - Jilayne (12:53) - thanks Thomas

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
