May 15, 2017

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Sai Uday Shankar
  - Thomas Steenberg
  - Kate Stewart
  - Anna Buhman
  - Yev Bronshteyn

## SPDX specification to github

  - Philippe gave Thomas access to repository
  - Thomas still moving over, Appendix 1. Base content is there. see:
      - <https://github.com/tsteenbe/specification/blob/master/chapters/appendix-I-SPDX-license-list.md>
      - <https://github.com/tsteenbe/specification/blob/master/chapters/7-relationships-between-SPDX-elements.md>
  - Basic markdown is present. will work on Readme & contribution MD
    before pushing live.
  - Improve rendering in .pdf in progress - works on mac. Willl send
    announcement to mail list as soon as pushed

## GSoC Coordination

  - Gary: online validation tools overlap concern, Kate clarified – only
    the titles are the same
  - Uday: how will someone use a resource to get started?
      - Gary - mirroring same AWS instance from OpenChain, and make it
        available for students to use. $35/month to host. Same account
        and create an instance. Work out accounting.
      - Approval from OpenChain group to use their instance for
        additional work. Set up right credentials and access. Elastic
        beanstalk. Push from development to production cleanly.
      - Need a redirect subdomain mapping for AWS. Do this during
        bonding period. Will start creating github repositories -
        github.com/spdx/
      - Gary will set up repositories in SPDX github account - just
        needs to know name of repository and github id. (Kate to send in
        for Krys).

## Github cleanup

  - Some of the repos were contributed by other companies. (airs, osip)
    - would like their permission to rename/relocate
  - Some created by core team but should be removed. (gitolite admin,
    spdx-rdf-vocabulary)
  - Thomas & Gary to research best practice for dealing with older
    repositories, pinning them, deprecated, other solution

## Next SPDX Spec

  - See
    <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vJqWGU02ynzrJ5CvmX1z2mBssOSpuBvuKene8jVJGNI/edit>
  - relationships in license
      - Agree this is a good proposal
      - Gary will take to legal for discussion
      - Result an appendix
  - Dependency version range
      - A solution to the problem when licenses may not be determinable
        at build time due to version range rather than specific version
      - Agree this is a good problem to solve
  - Size of File optional
      - Some concern on additional fields being added to the spec, but
        it is optional
      - Agree this is OK to add
  - Discussion on Limited information for some file contents of package,
    but not requiring all the files of the license
      - Can we use filesAnalyzed=false?
          - Doesn’t solve all the use cases
      - Discussion on views as being a solution
          - Discussion on whether this is a standard, tool, or best
            practices
          - SPARQL can be provided for views
      - Is this reducing the minimum to allow smaller documents

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
