August 15, 2017

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Thomas Steenberg
  - Anna Buhman
  - Kate Stewart
  - Uday Shankar
  - Yev Bronshteyn

## GSoC Student Updates

  - Overall good progress – details in gitter
  - Next week is the conclusion of GSoC - Gary will send reminder on
    gitter

## Naming

  - Discussed several related issues
  - Proposal – 2 scenarios, one for package aggregators (e.g. distros)
    and one for maintainers of a single package
      - Aggregators would use the form packagename-version.spdx
      - Maintainers would use LICENSE.spdx

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
