June 5, 2018

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Steve Winslow
  - Krys Nuvadga
  - Alexios Zavras
  - Tushar Mittal
  - Rohit Lodha
  - Trevor King
  - Ndip Tanyi

## GSoC

  - Tushar online XML editor, completed upload features – Implemented 4
    ways to input editor, working on 2 types of editor – text based and
    tree based. Include autocomplete and suggestions based on the XML
    license schema. Started working on the tree based editor.
  - From Galo on Gitter: Hello everyone, I have been working on
    researching how to use the GitHub API, to submit an issue when a new
    license is submitted since it was defined as a new project
    requirement. This week I will implement the db and store the
    licenses request on it. I also expect by the end of the week to read
    the submitted licenses from the db.
  - 
  - Ndip – broken project into modules, working on analyzer module –
    completed, NPM; started on downloader module; resolved python issues
  - Updating SPDX library Completed file module, deprecated questions,
    will start annotation module
      - Issue on deprecated – will support if not too complex
      - Issue on lots of required fields
          - don’t fail on missing mandatory
          - Warnings if missing required – will implement a flag in the
            validator to be strict
          - Issue outstanding to relax
            <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/29>

## 2.2

  - Model updated <https://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/Model_2_2>
  - Reviewed the issues list on github filtered by 2.2 release.
  - Made some updates for the following issues:
      - Clarify case sensitivity of Short Form licenses - for list and
        tools. \#63
          - Trevor created a pull request to resolve
      - Typo: 2.1 - Fix inconsistent use of spdx: in RDF examples \#57
          - Pull request resolves the issue, but has some merge
            conflicts
      - Consider adopting package-url for external package references
        \#53
          - Reviewed PR \#54 to see if it resolves this
            (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/54\#pullrequestreview-126084641)
          - Several comments have been posted

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
