July 3, 2018

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Krys Nuvadga
  - Tushar Mittal
  - Ndip Tanyi
  - Kate Stewart
  - Thomas Steenberg

## SPDX GSoC Updates

  - NDip – \[will post status to Gitter\]
  - Tushar – Sorry my internet was not stable, so posting my work
    updates here. Last week I completed the diff feature, which the user
    can use to review the changes and the validate feature which
    validates the XML text against the license schema. Currently there
    is a small bugs in the diff feature and also I need to implement
    pulling of the schema from the repo when user uses the validate
    feature. For the pull request feature I asked one of the github
    members, so he said that one bot account is allowed for the users
    and organizations. So I'll be exploring the Github apps and figuring
    out which method works better. Will be post my views on that.
  - Yash - I'm working on the rdf attributes of the Snippet class. I'm
    planning to integrate 2 more attributes like the
    SnippetLicenseComments and SnippetCopyrightText and include them all
    in a single PR
  - Gallo – Today I did some changes suggested by @rtgdk . The view for
    viewing the license requests list is almost completed. It is still
    missing the links to the license requests information. The list
    includes the license fullname, identifier and submission date
    columns for filtering; just as it was determined weeks ago.

For testing this feature, I included a example data file with some
records to load and view the license requests submitted. I will be
working on the url that will show the license request complete
information.

## 2.1.1 Version of Specification

  - Kate will do a final pass, then send out mail confirming release
    2.1.1
  - Thomas has found a new PDF tool that may work:
    <https://github.com/tombensve/MarkdownDoc>

## Upcoming Agenda

  - \#54 & 53. Need both Philippe and Trevor for this discussion
  - Alternative formats JSON / YAML / XML – Thomas is looking into using
    the alternate formats with ORT. We seem to have a consensus to
    support the multiple formats and the tools have been prototyped.
    Next step would be to determine how we will include these changes in
    the spec and tooling to support.
  - License repository and license namespaces – BMW is interested in
    sponsoring a student to work on building a facility where you could
    submit a license and it would check if the license text matches then
    provide either the matching SPDX license ID or a temporary license
    ID. This would require introducing some type of license name space
    to clearly distinguish the temporary license ID’s from the SPDX
    license ID’s. It also opens up the broader topic of namespaces for
    licenses provided by different organizations.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
