May 22, 2018

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Kate Stewart
  - Krys Nuvadga
  - Thomas Steenbergen

## 2.1.1

Thomas still working on the .pdf printing for 2.1.1, getting images
inserted is problematic.

## 2.2

Discussed proposal that Annotations apply to licenses as well as SPDX
elements (documents, packages, files, snippets)

  - seem to be some desire to keep License references same way treating
    the other SPDX elements.
  - Thomas would find it useful to comment on license-refs, possibly all
    in license list as well.
  - Discussion on how model should change… initial thoughts to keep it
    restricted to document scope
  - However, Thomas brought up example is a license acceptable or not by
    policies in supply chain.
  - Like to move this in spec, that agreement is embedded in SPDX
    document.
  - Yev pointed out that the Scope the license annotation applies to is
    important here
  - Discussed different use cases for licenses
      - review (ie. here’s the rest of the license information that
        wasn’t shown)
      - annotations in licenses as it applies to policy

.\* Thomas’ use case, not specific to license, policy could be specific
to snippets, packages, etc. additional context. Want to make sure we
handle when aggregate multiple SPDX documents into database.

  - Scope may indicate how a document license as applies to a specific
    package. Based on how we’re distributing, which of a dual license
    applies.
  - Scope attribute - is common to both use cases? Likely yes.
  - What about modeling licensing policies?
  - Maybe introduce LicenseAnnotation? not conflate the two.
    Semantically distinct.
  - Two types of annotation, is document annotation (current annotation)
    and license annotation.
  - In spec, possibly use header titles, but leave fields as is for
    annotation to clarify Document annotations vs. License annotations
  - License annotations should have licenceId and scope.
  - Licencse ID can be either license identifier from license list or
    LicenseRef.
  - Scope identifier is SPDX element (document, package, file, snippet).
  - AI: Kate create - new issue to be created: 2.2 - targeted issue for
    license annotation type , connecting, create new section. Work up
    proposal.
  - AI: Gary start an updated model for 2.2
      - <https://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/Model_2_2>

## Other Items of Interest

Kate is working on pulling together evidence to get SPDX to qualify as
NIST standard. Anyone wanting to help, please let her know.

## GSoC

  - Krys: concern about getting students more active in community
  - Possibly exams still happening is cause of quiet.
  - Gary: Propose allocate first 20 minutes for reports from students.
    Krys Agreed.
  - Krys: would like to know that 1:1s are occurring with other
    mentors/mentees. Other mentors adopt?

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
