March 26, 2019

## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Matthew Crawford
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Rohit Lodha
  - Philippe Ombredanne
  - Krys Nuvadga

## GSoC

  - Good list of students this year
  - Need more work ideas for the license list enhancments and namespace
    repository ideas
  - Matthew is interesting helping out
      - Gary to send invite and background information
  - Student application through April 6
  - Slot requests must be in by April 22
  - Discuss slots on April 16

## PDF Document Generation

  - Using Pandoc, mostly working
  - Internal document references not working
  - GSoC project

## Namespaces

  - Kate added issue \#113 with the content of Mark’s proposal:
    <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/113>
  - We didn’t quite have a quorum to close on the namespace proposal,
    we’ll discuss next week

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
