May 28, 2019

## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Xavier Figueroa
  - Krys Nuvadga
  - Mathew Crawford
  - Nisha Kumar
  - Steve Wilson
  - Natish
  - Umang

## GSoC

  - Philippe O, recommended waiting PRs to be merged.
  - PRs not merged yet.
  - Next steps: 96 & 98. Gary to work with Philippe to get unblocked
  - Recommend to tart working now.
  - Proposed a timeline for work. JSON support already done (in PR 96),
    want to suggest a change in timeline. XML first. All agree.
  - Gary suggests reserving time for
    <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/96>
  - Updates on Gitter channel <https://gitter.im/spdx-org/Lobby>

## Package Definition

  - Gary remembers as distributable unit. Collection of things that can
    be copyrighted. tar ball, commit record, directory, .. more of a
    collection with 2.0. Include subdirectory as its own package.
  - Kate notes that - “Common grouping”
  - Nish likes idea of common distribution - lowest common denominator
    is that they are sent somewhere.
  - Steve willing to give it a try - simple as possible, follow with
    examples.

## Semi-colon proposal

  - Mark Gisi’s proposal of “;” operator.
    <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/123>
    <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/124>
  - Gary - AND used to describe “ALL” the license that apply to a
    distinct package. If more than 1 separate work, it becomes
    confusing.
  - Adding another operator similar to “AND”, parts of distribution.
    Don’t want to imply that they apply to the same package.
  - Nisha would like to see this, defining execution environments.
  - Steve not sure what “;” is meant to communicated, 2 or more both
    apply to a unit of software. CC-BY-4.0 for documentation, code under
    Apache. So package as a whole would be Apache-2.0 AND CC-BY-4.0.
  - Suggest subdivide and refers to subpackages within a packages.
  - “OR” is a choice between licenses.
  - What is meant to be communicated by the “;” operator. Want to say it
    applies, but not when it conflicts. At package level is

LICENSE\_INFORMATION\_FOUND\_IN\_FILES.

  - Steve - concern people will use “;” when AND is really appropriate.
  - Want to reach out to legal team to get their perspective.
  - We should either decide to support, or get rid of WIKI page that is
    confusing people.
  - Nisha: AND, OR, and NOT used for licenses is sufficient. Semantic
    wise, AND and OR are ok.
  - Gary: Kick this over to the legal team.

## JSON Format Examples

  - Steve: Examples - pull request \#120 in SPDX Spec. Call at end of
    April.
  - Iterate what JSON format looks like. Branch for new FORMATs, sample
    XML and YAML documents. Iterate and comment to flesh it out on
    branch. JSON - gets towards a workable example. Get more official.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
