April 4, 2019

## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Mark Atwood
  - Rohit Lodha
  - Steve Winslow
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Krys Nuvadga
  - Philippe Ombredanne

## GSoC

  - Several proposals submitted and being reviewed
  - Need to merge ideas 4.1 and 4.2 since 4.1 is not significant enough
  - Need to process the pull requests for the Python libraries

## Namespaces

  - Agree to standard order DNS – agree with Alexios comment
  - Need to add Pull Request to add flat namespaces
  - Should also accept DNS names in the namespace registry – but need to
    consider the DNS names are “owned” by the DNS owner – maybe a
    checkbox
  - Link to licenses – would be a web accessible repository of SPDX
    documents describing the licenses (optional)
  - contrib, contrib.spdx.org – relate to a local repository – policy
    decision
  - library to support local repository of XML documents -
  - XML or JSON – or SPDX document – URL to SPDX document, XML
  - XML external reference links
  - Reviewed name space syntax issues
      - Philippe has concerns on the readability, but agreed we could
        move forward with the proposal
      - Identified the specification needs to be updated since license
        text will not be in the document for LicenseRef-\[namespaces\]
  - issue \#113 updated based on discussion:
    <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/113>
  - Gary will update the project ideas based on today’s discussion
  - A pull request will be created to update the spec for 2.2

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
