July 23, 2019

## Attendees

  - Philippe Ombredanne
  - Steve Winslow
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Jim Hutchinson
  - Rohit Lodha
  - Tushar MIttal
  - Kate Stewart

## SPDX prefixes to use in Source Files Appendix

  - General agreement that SPDX-“TagValue label” - is ok.
  - <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/122>
      - Action: Use FileCopyrightText:
  - SPDX-License-Identifer and SPDX-ConcludedLicense:
      - Philip would like to see clarification come with this that
      - SPDX-Licence-Identifer is an alias for SPDX-DeclaredLicense

<!-- end list -->

  - Philippe - wondering about introducing alisas when used in files.
      - Use this as a way to recocile the two?

<!-- end list -->

  - Steve - Note that its different and explain why different.
  - Which section of the SPDX can be included.
  - File section tags, make sense. Package a little higher.

<!-- end list -->

  - FileComment - generator.

<!-- end list -->

  - Referring to origin package.

<!-- end list -->

  - Philippe - two things. Provide SPDX- prefix tags in files.
  - Some inconsistencies. Specify and see how folks use.

<!-- end list -->

  - Subtle things. Missing tags at the file level. One is download URL
    for that file.
  - Maybe should state at file level tags with file prefix.
  - Find a way to specify.

<!-- end list -->

  - Package level fields? Details of parents in child as apposed to
    child in parent.
  - Put files and package level information. Package level of document,
    go to file of document. Risk of confusion and inconsistencies. Two
    files side by side.
  - Both have SPDX tags insided. What happens if refer to different
    package?
  - Probably ok - tools should create two SPDX documents. Relations is
    an issue at the document level. When you assemble and collect at the
    file level.

<!-- end list -->

  - Fields just level - makes sense, and some missing should be added.
  - Releationships/packages/etc. hard to include.

<!-- end list -->

  - Hierarchy of what developers put as documentation in code, when
    borrow code from somewhere from code. First is to put a URL. So,
    adding this to file level of the specification. Download URL not
    part of spec at all.

<!-- end list -->

  - Gary - Have to be careful of semantics of URL, made a copy vs. go to
    URL to download a copy. Package level could be confusing. Auditor
    perspective - Half to 3/4 is not the origin, copied from can’t be
    trusted.

Once we have the appendix. SPDX website, predigested version with
examples for developers.

  - Use this tag for this purpose…. easier for developer to see.
  - Steve - specify which fields not appropriate to use.
  - Kate- Put as a table, and leave out deprecated.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
