SPDX Tech Team Minutes, December 15, 2020

## Attending
* Rose Judge
* Nisha Kumar
* Gary O'Neall
* Alberto Pianon
* Jorge Rodriguez-Moreno
* Kate Stewart
* Alexios Zavras
* William Bartholomew
* Steve Winslow

Agenda:
Continue discussion from last week; see: https://docs.google.com/document/d/13PojpaFPdoKZ9Gyh_DEY-Rp7lldyMbSiGE3vCRQhR9M

Notes:
- Nisha: Is there a textual representation of UML
  - Alexios: PlantUML
- Nisha: Can we generate structured part of the specification from UML documents (key, cardinality, descriptions, different formats?)
- Gary:  Implementation challenges with some of the UML tooling
- Nisha: Python has most of the tools,  can write class diagrams, generate UML diagrams, ...
- Alexios: We'd have to define our own definition language that python would process.   Can we ever find something that satisfies our requirements?
- Nisha: Unified source of truth would require us to develop something ourselves.    Not sure community is willing to invest effort here.

- Options:
  - English in Markdown - adding in tags, so that information can be parsed from markdown files and translate into model.  Lets others all contribute.
  - Python - see comments from Nisha
  - OWL - In use today,  tool used is "Protoge", more complex than text,  learning curve.  Has richest constraint descriptions.   Easy to go from OWL --> JSON schemas, but the other way isn't true.   Would require folks being able to edit the OWL documents.   Its currently a single file, low collaboration.   Able to reuse classes that others have defined for you.   Leverage XSD datatypes, as well as URI, etc.   Schema in XML format, like XSD.   JSON Schema would be hard, as missing information.  Possibly if we find a way to set up different documents.
  - UML - Mostly widely adopted modeling standard.   Internally used to model things, higher chance of being understand.   We need to have UML as an output format at least.   UML Class Diagrams are part.   Standard text representation?   But it is a graphical representation, so we'd need textual aspect.
  - JADN (from David Kemp - see OASIS document) - tools in Python,  text based documentation representation.  Lacks styling hints, but does formalize how constraints are described.    Would need text format tooling to be written.   David is willing to help with tooling if we adopt this.

Alberto:  I have little experience with PlantUML, but I've seen that trivial things like multiline texts may be tricky to handle

Should we consider a combination of mark up language with OWL?  Yes.

JADN is only one that seems to be possible to be one format,  too new,  needs tooling.   Prefer over custom solution.  Might be really good alternative in the future.    Support documentation and constraint based schema languages.

So pretty much looking at two at this point - one human oriented,  one computer oriented.

Markdown - ok  for human oriented version.

Computer oriented -  UML will be output format for us.    Options are:
- JADN: want this as a future format, when more tooling appears?
- OWL: would like to see more on OWL documents.  Alexios, Thomas, Gary are only ones contributing.  Need to have multiple file options to improve collaboration.
- Each profile would have seperate OWL document so can build on each other.
- Separate OWL document for each chapter.   Would avoid merge conflicts.
- Pull request to markdown and OWL document; so seperate OWL document for each chapter or profile?  OWL document file that is distinct,  to avoid merge conflicts.   Concern: Lot may share proprieties.   Modular - possibly on profile level.    We need a workflow, where we collaborate on Markdown, than one individual does the workflow.  Pull request for markdown, should be accompanied with the model changes.   Maintainers for profile, should be able to handle update.
  - Python : Nisha biasing toward OWL based on prior discussions.

Goals still to elimnate errors between markdown --> OWL;  need to be specific about format of markdown.   Very specific names,  to allow for automation.   Seems to make markdown more restrictive seems acception.     Concern is to not break ISO translation.

AI:  Kate to find information on how the translation to ISO was done from markdown.

Validation in CI system is a goal.

Future call:  continue workflow discussion.
