June 2, 2020

## Attendees

  - Jim Hutchison
  - Rex Jaeschke
  - Kate Stewart
  - William Bartholomew
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Nisha Kumar
  - Steve Winslow
  - John Mudge
  - Takashi Ninjouji
  - Peter Shin
  - Rose Judge
  - Thomas Steenbergen

Topics: Rex/John update on 2.2.1 GSoC SPDX Tools

## SPDX 2.2.1

  - Update from Rex
      - Help wanted on a few issues (tagged as help needed)
      - John making progress on translating code into format.
      - Would like to target next week for all issues to be resolved,
        and put out for general review.

## GSoC

  - All mentors have met with their students
  - Coding has started
  - Adding a standing agenda item for the students to ask questions each
    meeting.

## SPDX Tools in the Repo

  - Java
      - Classic Java Tools - Supports 1.2, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2(except for
        JSON/YAML/XML)
      - New Java Tools - new repo that has API changes from classic java
        tools. Supports all formats of 2.2
  - Python
      - Need an update from Philippe on what happened to 2.1 port worked
        on via GSoC last summer
      - Gary offered to help once we have breakdown clarified.
      - Supports 1.2 today, but needs be brought up to 2.2
      - Tern could use the Python library for as a validator
      - Could use the community bridge mentoring program to help – Gary
        will follow-up on the mentoring call
  - GoLang
      - Currently 2.1
      - Next working on 2.2
      - Summer of code project to implement RDF format being
        incorporated
  - JavaScript
      - Last year's GSoC project but needs some work
      - Could potentially use Kotlin as a substitute
  - Kotlin
      - ORT uses SPDX
      - Could separate out a separate library
  - License mapping
      - Left off on how to map the ID’s to the aliases
      - Each language can implement
      - Future topic, possibly discuss in ACT.

## SPDX 3.0

  - Steve provided an overview of meta-issues
      - Different projects use different terms – agreement to use Meta
        issue
      - Suggestion to use Github template for the meta issues
          - Steve will create a template for META issues
      - Consider using templates for the different profiles
  - Labels
      - suggest “profile licensing” - ok'd by Steve
      - suggest “profile base” - ok'd by William
      - suggest “profile security” - ok'd by Thomas
      - Kate will add some additional profile labels
  - No meta issue for security for now – will use labels
  - William will look at a meta-profile

## Next Week’s Agenda

  - 2.2.1 update
  - GSoC update
  - License profile – joint call with legal starting at 15 minutes after
    the hours

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
