SPDX Tech Team Minutes, November 10, 2020

## Attending
* William Bartholomew
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* David Kemp
* Nisha Kumar
* Gary O'Neall
* Kate Stewart
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

For today's agenda, we'll be discussing:
* linking profile
* upcoming release of online tools

## Minutes

### Online tools
* new release will go live Nov. 14
* current staging area is at http://52.32.53.255/app/
* includes update to 2.2 spec, new formats; tweaks to license submittal form
* issues found should be posted to https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues
* all the fixes will be in production system,  rather than in intermediate.
* Japanese monthly call was informed about tool, and input requested.



### Linking discussion
* Currently for 3.0, we have a Relationship object inheriting from SPDXElement
* Includes properties From and To (SPDX IDs) and Type (RelationshipType)
* Discussing whether should be nondirectional or directional - as T/F - as a property of RelationshipType, rather than of Relationship?
  * Can the relationship type have a isDirectional boolean field to indicate if the relationshipType is directional or not?
    * Will remove duplicative relationship types; if directional, always assumed to be From -> To
    * Proposal to rename linking profile to relationship profile
      * Concern about using relationships in base and naming the profile relationship
      * Nisha will propose a different name - future discussion
    * Agreed to have a minimal set of relationships in the base profile and all the complicated relationships in the relationship profile
    * Discussion on integrity method for the relationships
    * Desire to have a cryptographic integrity method for the relationships
    * Current restriction on SHA1 for hashing algorithm is a problem - healthcare would like it to be SHA256
      * For 3.0, it will be more flexible, and not mandate any specific one.
      * Add integrity method in relationship profile.
      * Make profiles own what level it should be.

* Open Question:  having relationships in base, but relationship profile on its own may be confusing?
  * Discussion ensued arriving around want to keep basic relationships (CONTAINS, DESCRIBES) stay in base, but more "enhanced relationships" go into their own profile - name is "TBD"  - targetting to share next week ideally.

* Intoto relationships - X509 - Certificates have a valid before and not valid after.   Contents of artifact are different than the certificate.

* Discussion on ValidUntil (from Usage profile)
  * hang off of "artifact" or "element" or "document"
  * There are 2 separate date and string into different fields - need this for tools per discussion with Gary
  * about the thing,  vs. about the information about the thing.   Is something we should aim at?
  * about the thing - valid at artifact level
  * about the metada - either at the element or document - not artifact.
    * Unit of integrity about all of the metadata information - its simpler.      But does it satisfy the use cases?
    * We don't want to force people to create a document for every element for this.
  * Should we consider "AMENDS" as a way of dealing with this?   Invalidate the prior document?  to be discussed.

* Upcoming meetings:
  * Nisha - next week;   William - divide & conquer section writeup.
  * Thanksgiving week - skip meeting
  * Kate - Build profile
  * Steve - Licensing profile
  * Thomas?  - Security profile??
