# SPDX Tech Team Minutes, November 3, 2020

## Attending
* Wiliam Bartholomev
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* Jim Hutchison
* Nisha Kumar
* Gary O'Neall
* Peter Shin
* Kate Stewart
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda
* Continue with William's comments on base model
* Discuss comments from Nisha re: linking, containers

## Minutes

### Continue with William's comments on base model

* Relationships - do we want many to many?
* Confirming - Relationship is an object that inherits from SPDX elements.
* Confriming - 1 to many relationships will be permitted in 3.0
* Can it contain a from and to - explicit or can we have implicit?   Implicit to/from seems reasonable for serialization.
  * Example of Graphviz DOT files -- use double-hyphen for "sibling / undirected" relationships; hyphen-with-arrow for directed relationship.
  * Do we want to introduce a type to indicate directional or not?    Some relationships have to be direction,  some do not.   It would be a property on relationships themselves.  Seems to be general agreement.
  * Peter suggests have legends in the UML diagram to allow the diagram to be self-dependent.
* Example of many to many - 3 packages versions,  have same dependencies?   Circular dependency?
* Did not appear to be anyone in favor of many-to-many relationships.
  * 3T SBOM group did want many-to-many - SPDX might require extra work to be compatible with that (or participants might discuss with 3T about changing).
  * Can always translate from many-to-many (3T) to one-to-many (SPDX) by just reproducing the many-to-many as multiple one-to-many relationships

* Diagram updated to reflect removing Comment String.
  * Annotation - should they be a sub-class of SpdxElement?
    * Kate: probably not. We can probably continue with the current version and circle back if we find a good use case for it.
* Added a default SPDXID ('Document') for SpdxDocument class  in the UML.
  * Base profile - Artifacts: discussed whether Supplier should be a Relationship or a property on Artifact, and whether it should be one or many
    * agreed that there should be a possibility to express multiple suppliers, either way
    * if it's a property, it's clear which one it refers to; if it's a relationship, more flexible but you have to always look up what it's referring to.
    * Originator & Supplier - Gary wants to see only one Originator, however ok with multiple suppliers.   0..1 for Originator;  0..* for Supplier.

* Discussed Snippets:
  * should byte range be an optional field, rather than mandatory?
    * Gary: okay with it being optional; perhaps should be "encouraged"
    * Steve to put in an issue for this => filed #485, https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/485
  * should character position be used instead of bytes? no,  bytes to characters can be difficult, and it doesn't handle binaries.
  * should character position be an optional additional alternative: general concensus seems should be fine.
    * Peter to put an issue for this.

### Discuss comments from Nisha re: linking, containers

Had to leave meeting early, didn't discuss
