SPDX Tech Team Minutes, December 8, 2020

## Attending
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* Rose Judge
* Nisha Kumar
* Gary O'Neall
* Alberto Pianon
* Jorge Rodriguez-Moreno
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Kate Stewart
* Steve Winslow
* Alexios Zavras
* Grace Barla
* Peter Shin
* Anshul Sharma


## Agenda

Discuss how to "model" the spec information for 3.0:
* Agree on the problem statement
* Discuss alternatives
* Agree on the criteria we want to use to choose
* Compare the alternatives based on the criteria

Alexios comments prior to call: https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-tech/message/3937

## Minutes

Current tools:
* Gary says there have been no problems

SPDX Modeling:
* https://docs.google.com/document/d/13PojpaFPdoKZ9Gyh_DEY-Rp7lldyMbSiGE3vCRQhR9M
* There is the documented spec and there are various implementations of the spec and they may not be in sync
* Agreement that the problem is we need a "single source of truth". However, this may not be practical.
* Separating the natural language text from "code".
* Gary: we would like to have one source that includes english language.
* Nisha: we don't have a unified way of writing out a single source of truth in sync, so figuring out the workflow seems more relevant.
* Steve:  How should we draft specific profiles as a workflow makes most sense.    English text vs. in another model,  unblocking the work streams.
* Alexios: The objective is that from the source of truth we can generate different formats
* Jorge: OEMs would like to have the ability to generate different formats for the specific SPDX versions (can't push to always latest).
* Alexios: not sure how far back we want to extend to historical formats.
* Thomas: Should consider this only for forward versions.
* Kate: We have to also generate an ISO document format
* Gary: we should add this to the supported formats.

* Gary:  Overview on how we do it -
  * Github repo markdown is source of truth today,   and Gary has been updating an RDF OWL document singlefile (its XML).   It also contains model relationships that aren't in spec.   Done by manually reading the spec, and then copy/paste markdown text into MD document.   Alexios generates model diagram out of RDF OWL.  For JSON LD - schema generated.   XSDs?    Artifacts deposited back into the github repository.   Markdown source gets converted to Word document for ISO submission.    Examples are generated from updated Java tools.   Java tools are updated based on the SPEC.    Tag/Value or JSON - created,  then use online tool to generate other formats.
  * Steve: There are 5 (or maybe 6) pieces that require manual effort:
    * Markdown
    * OWL (from Markdown)
    * Word document (from Markdown)
    * Initial example used to generate other examples.
    * Using tools to generate other examples
    * Language specific libraries (python, golang, java, ..)
* Alexios: How much do we model?
* Should we model property types, cardinality, relationships, conditions, the appendix?
* Thomas: How much of effort and what is technically possible. Provide a proof of concept. Assuming we are not going to write a code generator.  So we need to make use of what is already there. There is class model. RDF seems to be different
* Gary: tag-value is probably the most difficult from an object model perspective but generation is not that bad. Disagree with regards to the RDF.
* Thomas: Code generator problems:
  * cardinality is not supported by all code generators. Workaround is to create a property in the class.
  * Code generators cannot toggle off and on fields based on SPDX rules.
  * Align on CamelCase and ENUMs. Suggested approach: have the data model as code and write a custom generator for the conditional
* Gary: we need to capture relationships in some way. (covered in types)
* Thomas: It is also difficult to model the free form text (not included in SPDX 3.0?)
* Alexios: English language description texts should also be here.
* Gary: There are common fields in the OWL document that do match the text. The format also supports different locales
* Thomas: in the current spec has more wording (guidance for implementers). So do we have a data model specification and guidance for tool implementers?

Community seems to be heading towards keeping the English text separate from the data model. So the top text of the specification (chapter 1) is separate, but the structured part of the specification can live in the data model.
Steve: Request that the profile maintainers take responsibility to keep the profiles in sync with the base data model.
Alexios: That means there is a centralized process of collecting all the changes and bubbling it up to the base (similar to kernel development workflow)

Community will continue discussion about it next week.

Requirements and critera:
* text based
* reviewable with git
* model as much info as possible
