# SPDX Tech Team Meeting,  March 30, 2021

## Attendees
* John Horan
* Brian Fox
* William Cox
* Kate Stewart
* Steve Winslow
* Alexios Zavras
* Nisha Kumar
* Gary O'Neall
* Kay Williams
* Peter Shin
* William Bartholomew

### Regrets
* Sean
* William only avaiablee 2nd half

## Agenda
* Template Format:  review Licensing & Sean's proposal
* Review serialization implications on model

## Notes
### Template Format
  * deferring discussion of Sean's until he's available.

  * reviewed Steve's PR.
    * how do we express profile's own identifiers? - ie. "licensing"
    * Gary's proposal - add a metadata table to the profile itself.   Only thinkg that's in there is the profile name.   This follows the pattern of documenting prior titles.    Maybe we just putting a N.1 table under the metat data table.
    * Profile identifier and status are the elements we should add into the metadata table.
    * How handle extending "Document" - subclass -  base profile.   Would yield an issue with multiple inheritence.   Subclass of is a hint to the generator.   So open question is how to represent in the model.  A schema for each profile?   How do we represent more than one profile.
    * One schema per profile would be easy, but if you want multiple profile,  how represnt.
    * Profiles can change cardinality on fields.
    * Nisha: its own profile is its own set of metadata, but still follows its own SPDX format?
    * Gary: if want to validate the tool against a schema, then you'd need all the licensing informaiton to properly validate.   It would be a superset.
    * Nisha:  Tool would be validating if manditory vs. optional for a set of keys?
    * Gary: Challenge is to document it in the schema - markdown is straight forward,  want to look towards 5! schemas ?  Not sure how to avoid.
    * Steve:  How about anything being added to base, has to be nested within the object, licensing would need to be in there.   ie.  keeping the encapsulation for sub object.
    * Alexios:  Works for things add, but what about changing cardinality?
    * Steve:  Maybe overrides?   Concluded License is an example.    Licensing Profile, sub object.   Schema specifying cardinality - with 1 line of code, is JSON code conformant.  Cardinality done manually is about 100 lines of code.   Grab schema file to check and then good/not.
    * Nisha: Cardinality for set of profiles - fetch the list of the metadata into a superset.
    * Gary: Similar to permutation of schemas.   Maybe validate against each independently.   Only include info that is unique to licensing profile.
    * discussion ensued....
    * Gary:  store all permuations in a repository - rather than generating a new schema.  So 20 or 30 schemas, so pull file.
    * Alexios:  Suggest we structure this like Bluetooth profile.   No overlap between fields..
    * Kate:  Problematic when talking about relationships - like linkage/integrity.
    * Nisha:  Optional fields in one profile, compared to mandatory.
    * Kate:  What about if touch base,  but independent between profiles?
    * Kay: Base profile + Software profile + Licensing profile ??   What about hardware?
    * Steve:  prefer to hold on this for now
    * Nisha:  Version is an example - security must have it, but others may not.   Separation of concerns with metadata, may be easier to construct.
    * Why can't be version not be mandatory for an element?
    * Gary indicates will be problematic

    * Gary to share what JSON schema looks like & options picked up on call.

### Problem: Each profile extends some classes in other profiles - how do we express schemas for each of the possible profile permutations
* Criteria:
   * Simplicity (in order of priority)
    * Cosuming and verifying documents (tools, humans) ++
    * Creating documents (tools, humans)
    * Spec readers
    * Spec writers
  * Extensibility
  * Scalability - being able to add new profiles in the future
  * Profile versioning
  * Compatability - between versions and versions of profiles
  * note: add profile version to profile metadata

### Profile Options:
>>
 1. each profile must be independent - create separate subclasses
 2. each profile must be independent - separate property/classes entirely - e.g. licenseingBlock inside the parent object <br>
        + allows each profile to be developed independently <br>
        - possible duplication of fields across different profiles - e.g. changing cardinality would duplicate the field <br>
        + Linear number schemas <br>
        + More extensible <br>
 3. each profile subclasses from declared profiles (e.g. base etc) and each class is a subclass - must allow multiple inheritance
 4. each profile extends (redefines) the base profile objects - schemas are generated for each of the possible profile combinations <br>
        - Should change the structure to have the profile information in the main object definitions <br>
        + forces coordination between profile writers <br>
        + reduces redundant information <br>
        - requires multiple schemas to be generated - combinations of schemas <br>

### Discussion:
* Nisha: consider masking?   Apply masks associated with fields.
  * Gary: contraints on schema language may impact this here.
  * Ordering is going to be an issue.
* Discussion of relationships... want it in base.   Relationship type by profile.
  * Nisha:  does base profile get invalidated by security profile (ie. version example).
  * If multiple places that same data can live, could get problematic.
* Alexios:  looking at base and what ever profile I'm using.
  * Challenge is JSON keys aren't unique, so we'll need to be careful about this as well.
  * Multiple places - duplication of fields,  pushes burden on creator or producer
  * Peter suggests we identify those elements which may be duplicated between profiles?
* William: I have a strong preference for 2, I think some of the duplication issues can be solved. Also, 2 doesn’t preclude inheritance, in fact we need it.
  * Gary: issue with multiple inheritance for some of the subclassing options - to be discussed


## Future Agenda Topics
* Continue discussion of how to handle profiles in spec.
* Model Serialization
* FSFE - having profile that relates to the orginator of code,  pull in legal.   FSFE - structuring of metadata,  manual use of SPDX standard.    Invite - ( Steve, ReUSE folks )
* Legal Profile -  contents
* Core Profile - content writeup
* Identity modeling
