# SPDX Tech Team,   Nov 21, 2021

## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximillian Huber
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew


## Agenda
* Logical model
* Collection
* Package as Artifact not ContextualCollection
* NamespaceMap on Collection or Document
* Diagram review for outstanding issues

## Notes
* Collection - insight was trying to have them do double duty.   See email from William.
   * Want to avoid overlap with relationship "contains" which could be to set of "something"
   * Contextual collection is a grouping of elements
   * May be a grouping of artifacts in real world, but may not be.
   * May want to group files in an interesting way, between two packages, but no meaning in real world.   Could have a contains relationship between contextual collection and 2 files.
   * Note: want to make sure to use "contains" relationship consistently.
* Sean looking to see serialized examples to help clarify and check
* William - Integrity over elements is interesting - but we haven't defined it yet.  Its only over the document level today.
* Sean - concern over model structure and canonical serialization.
* William - what is the contianer for serialization is an open question.
* Sean - need some unifying thing for doing aggregation of elements.

* Gary - Document - external mapping - tying.    Preserve information for roundtriping on serialization.    Separate out classes and properties that relate to serializations and keep them distinct from the elements.    Document relates to integrity method and serialization information.
* William - If you weren't serializaing a BOM,  call it a document.
* Gary - What is difference between contextual collection and document?
* William - transmitting from "chunk" but not contents within.
* Sean - can serialize a relationship, but not namespace map, it is a collection.
* Gary - Serialization needs to be associated with either Document or ContextualCollection
* Document is not an exclusive or with contextual collection.
* Sean - Should be a property on contextual collection
* Henk - Document and Contextual Collection really aren't that different.   Two types of nodes in path, so infinitiy loop, from modeling point of view.
* William - different semantic meaning.    You can have inifinite loop with contextual collections as well.
* Alexios - add string into contextual collection.
* William - Would be helpful to have some examples of context collection.
* Sean - Context for a BOM as a bill of materials.    May be other uses.   Kind of context, never have a subclass.
* William - Isn't this defining a profile then?
* Sean - Implicit at user level,  other than those 5 values - string based thing,   class vs. comment.

* Sebastian showed example of Debian, and we walked through the relationships
* Packages contain other packages is key to understanding.
* William - archive and file may be too specific.    Directory of files can be a package in SPDX 2.2
* Henk - conceptual collection is more ephemoral, rather than explicit.
* David - mathematical rather than ephemoral.   Think about "set" doesn't have baggage.     Ephemoral bunch of elements should be refered to as a set.
* Alexios - set vs. mathematical - ie. each must be unique.
Kate - raised concern that groupings with same hash is a valid use case.
Sean - at graph level is a set,  not more than one copy,  but when serialize may have multiple copies of same element.

TODO:   William to submit a PR with the current model.    Serialized examples.

Dave: Serialized examples, along with information model, were emailed before meeting, and available in https://github.com/davaya/spdxv3-template-tool/tree/main/Data3.  Information model intended to address all use cases - counterexamples welcome!
