# SPDX Technical Meeting Minutes, March 2, 2021

## Attendees
* Kate Stewart
* Kay Williams
* Sean Barnum
* William Bartholomew
* Gary O'Neall
* Peter Shin
* Nishad Thalhath
* Jim Hutchinson
* John Horan
* Jeff Schutt
* Jorge Rodriguez-Moreno
* Karsten Klein
* Jeff Schutt
* William Cox
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* Brian Fox
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Henk Birkholz
* David Kemp
* Rose Judge
* Nisha Kumar


## Agenda
* Sean to show how SHACL can augment OWL to illustrate (15 mins)
* Model:  Revisit Document to inherit from Package, extension  (William)  --> to top of hour.
* Template - are we good? (Gary)
* Nisha to show use case for Linkage profile and partitioning (30 min)

## Notes
### SHACL overview
* SHACL - Shapes Constraint Language - W3C specification for validating graph-based data against conditions.
* It is done at the semantic level, independent of the serialization (JSON-LD, etc.)
* Validation is done by comparing a shaped graph, to a data graph, and match conformance.
  * Constraints on nodes and on properies
* Can also specify logical constraints (instead of OWL property restrictions).   If this field, than these are mandatory, etc.
* can interact to SPARQL
* TURTL syntax,   core element shape.   can save in separate TURTL file for SHACL, and RDF/OWL.;  or can embed within RDF/OWL.   Can embed property shapes as part..
* markdown will go into embed RDF/OWL embeded with SHACL information.
* Alexis:  Will Protoge handle the embeded format?   Gary - that's something we should investigate further.
* Alexis - Protoge will validate SHACL.   Sean - UCO is using embedded SHACL and have not seen downside yet.
* Yields cleaner, more correct RDF/OWL.   Avoids tempting misuse of RDF/OWL.    Standards based sructure, can be done with any SHACL validation engine.
  TODO:  log slides from Sean in github and put a link from these minutes.

### Model
* Recap:   relationship,  document as
* Extensions:   Would need to define a subclass of extension.    It would be structured, so some user community.  Could define own extensions on extensions.   If they expect anyone to understand it would need to separate agreement.    Expressing things faster than the standard can move.   Good input into where the standard could grow.   Set of properties about something, but its not its own thing.   Some set of characteristics may be expressed here.     We may want to define extensions that are only relevant on profiles.
* RDF, XML, JSON, YAML - we should be able to translate between in theory.   but TAG, XLS don't support generalized object model.    So we'd have problems with this aspect for translation.
* Core use case in standard itself - may become a valuable mechanism.   Misuse is possible.
* Extensions:  Need to document how to go through tag-value/spreadshet.   Also need to make sure no one can add extensions that will contradict.
* Need to define - what is Document, Element, Package, Artifact, Creator, Originator, Supplier, ....
* SPDX 2.2 model has Element and Artifact definitions, just named different.
* BOM is represented using Package.   BOM

* Concern raised about Package (2.2) --> SoftwarePackage (3.0)
* Gary wants to discuss naming "SPDXPackage" --> "SoftwarePackage" and implications.
* Version of stuff together, rather than version of artifact.  Dataset version, semantic version.   Artifact URL.
* Looking for volunteer to term & 1 line definitions from SPDX and 3T efforts.   See Gary's earlier analysis.    Good comparison from thinking of time.
  * Kay volunteered to take a pass tabularize with 3T definitions (Kate to review Gary's and forward as a starting point)
  * Sean to send a bullet list of concerns to William, and set it up for next meeting.
  * Can the definitions be written down in the markdown format?   Gary agrees.
  * Gary:  Here's the repo with the issues aligning SPDX and 3T - there is also a separate spreadsheet I need to find: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-security-sbom/issues

* Table review.
* Thomas - Defects profile

### Template
- Let try and see, and revisit if blocker.    No concerns raised other than folks want examples to use to move forward with.

### Linkage Profile Discussion
- https://github.com/SantiagoTorres/spdx-linking-mockups/tree/master/use-cases
- need to have abstraction and document linking between documents, to keep clarity.
- linking profile:
    - are all relationships able to be placed in profile of itself?
    - can we handle relationship to external document?
    - Nisha Noticed as missing element in 3.0 model discussion (Only seeing External Ref in current 3.0)
        - Gary:  yes, should be able to do so. in 2.2 its  ExternalDocumentRef.   (Tagvalue - its in the syntax of External Document Ref)    There is a proposal for ExternalMap that needs to be included in model.
        - If referencing a Document,  then externalmap.   External Reference (things not in model).    External Document Reference (things in model) which is consider transition to be named to be "externalmap")
        - Nisha - wants to ensure that tools can follow same data model, same schema applies, etc.
        - Reserve type of element called SPDX?   Want to make sure what referencing is following the same schema.
        - Requirement:  Must be a document associated with an external element.   Have a verification checksum.
        - Profile - can only refer to external things with a document.  However Sean advocates we may not need this, so subject to be explored next meeting.

- Linkage profile is to indicate how the componts and relationship.
- We need to get these to serialized example on model.
- William incorporating externalmap -- queue up for next week agenda
- This is a blocker for Nisha.


# Future Agenda
- Review of Definition table (Kay,  William, Gary, Kate)
- Reveiew of ExternalMap that's been added to the model.    Does it suffice to support ExternalDocumentRef usage in 2.2 today?   How can it handle interactions between versions of the SPDX documents?  Do we need a separate linkage profile?  or is it part of core?  (Sean, William, Gary, Kate, Nisha)
- Review of current state of Defects profile (Thomas, William)
