# SPDX Tech Team meeting, August 17, 2021

## Attendees

* Adrian Diglio
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jim Hutchinson
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Shin
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Notes

* WIKIpedia entry
  * Sebastian ok to publish now.

* David Edelsohn - challenge for people looking at 3.0 to start to on ramp.
   * Thomas:  Sneak peak of 3.0 Model - will help.   Publicity and feedback.
   * Sebastian willing to take a pass at generating.
   * What are criticism of 2.1?   Can we highlight them.
   * David:  it's security vs. licensing.   3.0 in current github is stale.
   * Gary suggests point to model,  minutes and status update.
   * Suggestion to update the 3.0 branch of the spec repo to only contain a README pointing to the model, perhaps minutes or current status
   * Nisha is willing to write a blog post about 3.0,  Sebastian will work with Nisha offline
   https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/master/tech/Model.png
   * William -This is out of date, but it’s something I wrote up for GitHub/Microsoft teams I’m working with to give them a preview of SPDX 3.0: https://gist.github.com/iamwillbar/86a38b789a2e3e04b69094c4ae1d1f6a


### Identifiers
* Describe requirement and what is necessary to satisfy.
   * Sean:  Content is groupings/packages,  file,  are inside of a document.   Need to get the document and then get  information within it.    3T community that for many different use cases, this approach is problematic.   Producers create own ids,  and a new SBOM built up using,  then reference to thing.
   * Contextual collection of content.  Point to specific thing you care about, and not refer to intermediate "hops".    Source code file used in multiple products,  references file.   2 Reference use cases - element,  and possibly container.
   * Definitions/registries of content.   Producers of software in github.   Elements for identities.   In a graph it all holds together.   Also needs to work for representation of package.   Vulnerability content.   This vulnerability exists and here's what it is.   Independence of vulnerability.  New pieces of software reference.   3rd party asserted relationships.    These need to exist in a broader temporal context.    Defining and referencing perspective.   Define an element independ of a container in a point in time.
   * Should not preclude refencing from a "document centric" view.   Goal is to let others do a wider set.
   Gary:  Requirements:   Defined independently and referenced independently.  Elements are unique.   Independent of container shipped in.   Key is not requiring intermediate steps to reference/dereference.
   * Nisha:  Premise to download a serialization is not necessary true.   Why doesn't namespace solve?
   * Bob:  Namespace does not equate to a document.
   * Nisha:  Not everyone uses the physical namespace, but users don't actually know them.   Burden is on client to find it.
   * William: Namespace is logical, not physical
   * Gary:  We need to be translate between the logical and linked data formats.
   * David:  Want to have independent referencable things independent of any specific conformation.   Document can have an element in it.    Only thing that document has is a namespace, for element.
   * Bob:  But document element can have its own name space.
   * Sean:  Non contextual container - id ref.  Serializations at high level.   Element and root element are key in Document.
   * Gary:  Document name space - needed for being able to translate between non-linked data serializations.  Requirement:   Need to support non-linked data serializations.
   * Sean:  International Resource Identifier (IRI) is composed of (namespace+identifier),  then same could be used in different pieces semantically separate.    William commented that IRI is URI v2
   * Sebastian:  What is a non-linked data serialization?
     * Nisha: Tag-value, JSON, YAML - are non-linked data.  JSON-LD is linked data.   Rest of formats are.   Processing in string.   High performance JSON blob, have to think about reading the data.   GraphQL is a good example of this.   Its an interface that performs queries against REST APIs, so you need to define your schemas accordingly.   Non-Linked data may not be condusive to ecosystem in which used.
     * Sean: JSON-LD - requires every id to have object and type to work.  Any serialization should be able to express.
     * David:  My two requirements:  1) Each Element must stand alone (Sean's position)  2) Each Element in a collection must have an Identifier that is not a full IRI.(Sean disagrees)
     * Nisha:  Way it is being used is key.
     * Gary:  Blank nodes cannot be independently referenced outside.
     * Sean: to share example with JSON.  Key is independence on elements.     Classes are either:  domain (subclass of element), complex data type (structured data -ie.  external map),  or special type (extensions)
     * Sebastian:  Elements are more powerful than properties?    Gary:  more powerful but more costly.
     * Peter: I would like to see concrete examples.  I can't provide any feedback at this point.
     * Sebastian: Assume I have 100 Elements; most of them describe files making up my application. Each element has a URI. I'd like to verify the individual files making up my application, so I query the supplier's API to ask for the hash for each file that I have a URI for.

Requirements:
* Independently unique defined
* Independently unique referenced
* Not requiring intermediate steps
* Support non-linked data serializations

* Sean:  Identifiers can be used for linked data referencing.   URIs can be routed.
* Nisha:  Cloud native will have an issue around not requiring intermediate steps.   An absolute URI for an element is not always possible.   Example:  Docker backend resolves to URL,  but front end does not get access to it.
* Henk:  Its a resource problem.  IRI is just identifier.   Locator does the mapping.   Its a convenience method.
* William: Separating identity from routing is important to be able to use these graphs in air gapped or other disconnected environments  I find it helps to use non-http/https URIs mentally to force me to disconnect resolution from identity. Imagine, urn:github:iamwillbar:repo rather than https://github.com/iamwillbar/repo

* Possible requirement:  IRI Support potential be able to route.   Better off choosing a format that does this.
* William:  A namespace MUST be a URI, a namespace MAY be a URL
* Sebastian:  Important to put in examples that are not URL.    Concern that IRI is behind paywall.
* Gary:  SPDX has standardized to date on URIs.
* Sean:  URI is a subset of IRI.   Extra stuff in IRI.   URI will handle scope.
* William:  Is this not the IRI RFC? https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3987
* Sebastian:  Happy to drop support routable requirement to avoid a paywall.
* Gary:  support not forcing full IRI - capturing namespace.   prefix in string.   All elements are full URIs in model.  In some class we capture a string prefix.   Namespace property,  append prefix with remainder of elements.   When translate back to non-linked data.  Separate out ids and recreate.   Class contains this, with creator info,  but when translate and then back, is loss-less.
* Sean: in principle yes,  it handles in other places like SparQL,  hint discussion.

* Next week on implementations....   see David's, Gary's writeups.
* Ask Sebastian - to restart theads so easier to work and follow.
* Gary:   agree new thread with "Identifier Proposal" in subject


Document Level properties - how do we represent.
Separator Discussion (IdString type) - need Sean/William/Gary/David/Alexios/Kate
Label Discussion
