# SPDX Technical Team - 14th December 2021

## Attendees

* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* William Bartholomew
* Bob Martin
* Henk Birkholz
* Thomas Steenbergen

## Agenda
* Open Questions
   * How handle source package info?
   * Go Tools - status & roadmap.
* Open punch list


## Notes
* Source vs. Built packages - use "generated by relationship.
* Go tools - adding additional formats.
* Anchore donating Syft & Grype to OpenSSF;
* Syft adopting SPDX
* Conversations with Grype to extend the profile.
* SBOM-a-rama held tomorrow &
* Landscape -  merging Tern in - AI:  Kate
* Package URL around version ranges - please provide thoughts https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/139
* Lots of updating going forward with Log4j in Java space, LDAP interaction. https://github.blog/2021-12-13-githubs-response-to-log4j-vulnerability-cve-2021-44228/

### SBOM Core Profile punch list
*  Pending questions:
    * Document:  Are we loosing any information compared to 2.2 when serialized.
    * Document: Should it be considered as an Artifact.   Document artifact is a collection of element, and can refer to as an artifact.
    * Is it to describe the document or is it a document?
        * Can you serialize a single element by itself?
    * Should namespace be in a collection or a Document?    A document represents a serialization of one or more elments and is namespace specific.
    * External map - how does it relate to a collection.   Document inherits collection,  Collection is abstract.
    * Namespace map should go on document because they are specific to serialization.
    * Why would you a BOM rather ContextualCollection?
* Henk:  Document and contextual collection have no semantic difference, when doing the model.  Parsers trying ot automate may have concerns.    William:  the semantic is the definition.

* Contextual collection:  shared context.  Does not represent a serialization.
* Document: no implication that there is a shared context.   Represents a serialization.  You can checksum it.   It is physical, and namespaces.   Does not need to contain an SBOM at all - it could be a list of licenses.

* Does the document represent some form of serailization for verification?  So that it can be referred to in the future?  Round triping (meta data about the serialization is important).
* Documentation being serialized representation of elements,  makes more sense to show as an artifact.   Could have a stream artifact.   Collection says that this set of bytes has these elements in it.  Document is the stream of bytes.
* An element called document does not appear in a serialized set of bytes.  License elements.
* An annotation has creator, summary, etc.
*  A single Annotation Element has creation info. Five annotation Elements each have their creation info that may be the same or different.  One or more Elements can be serialized into document bytes.  Those bytes are described by a File (Artifact) Element that has creation info for the aggregation separate from its members.
* Reasons why Meta data about the serializations:   Data licensing,  Copyright,  Round tripping, ....

* Is it necesseary for data licenses to be involved in document?  (related to serialized bytes).
   * Element license represents for the element,  not for the document collection.   Not comfortable can be solved in a contextual collection.

* Can the license info for the serialized data be a property of the collection.


BOM & SBOM
* Why do we need these?    Marketing/expectation management.
   * Package artifact is always the top level.   Everything that follows from it, is an SBOM.
     SBOM is about the package.  Package is about the package, its also not the package.
     Is SBOM and Package the same thing?
* Does having an SBOM replace the need for document DESCRIBES relationship?
* How does SBOM relate to document?
* Is SBOM the same as artifact?   What does an artifact describe?

* Artifact could be a service, device, feature.
* Is defining feature of BOM that it is comprehensive?
  * Is this BOM ready to ship, does it capture everything it is meant to provide?   SBOM would just be software?

* Contextual Collection:
  * Does contextual collection really need a namespace map and an external map?
  * Context - is an arbitrary string to describe the why these files are related.
  * Should the context be an enumeration rather than a string?
  * If BOM & SBOM have a fixed context do we need to have them as separate classes?

* Collection
  * Does collection really need a namespace map and an external map?

* Namespace Map:
    * Is there a default namespace?   Will empty prefix suffice?
    * Namespace map can have explicit or blank prefix - can a blank prefix refer to all the documents in the document?   Elements in a document can be from any namespace.
    * How does the namespace map, interact with External map?  External map has integrity map. Validation
    * Should namespace map be on collection or document?

* External Map:
    * Should we change the cardinality of verified using to be optional? (see where it resides, but don't want to verify integrity)   Possibly using an integrity profile?
    * Can a single element be serialized into a document with just the bytes of that document?   Do you need the bytes of 2 element in serialized data, or just the bytes of one element?
    * Is Document only for serializtion?
    * In git, what it hashes, it goes through a filter to do normalization.
    * Do we need to clarify between external map (SPDX understand) and external reference (SPDX is opaque to, and doesn't follow further)?   Should ExternalMap be renamed ExternalSPDXMap or something similar to imply that understanding?
    * Some confusion about external id vs. Element URL
    Should document hang off element and namespacemap and externalmap hang off document?

* Should we have properties that duplicate relationships?  (plays into round tripping)

* Discussion of punchlist, have on the github issues.

* Defects meeting to be in -  https://meet.jit.si/SPDXDefects following this meeting.

* Next meeting on Jan 4, 2021
