# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, May 18, 2021

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Peter Shin
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Cox
* Gary O'Neall
* Rose Judge


## Agenda
* GSoC update
* SPDX Website update - Call for Volunteers, tools
* SPDX Document relationship to SBOM (EO update)
* Template closure?
* Core/Base profile

## Notes
### GSoC Update - Alexios
* 5 students (and their projects) have been confirmed.
* Mentors should be making contact this week.
* Still lacking mentors in some spots.

### SPDX Website update
* Volunteers - Sebastian Crane, Thomas Steenbergen, Alexios Zavras
* Landscape - ok to use company logo.    Let Kate know.
  * Here - ok to be used.  (take from TODO website)
  * Canvas Labs - Peter to send logo
  * Intel - Alexios asking
  * VMware - Nisha asking
  * MITRE - Bob pondering;  parts yes.  3.0 can get behind,  2.2 limite
  * TNG - Maximillian checking
  * Jeff - checking.
  * Synopsys - William checking
  * Tidelift - ... need check to see if use logo.

### NTIA SBOM interaction
* Formats & Tooling meeting on Friday at 11am EDT - if interested, contact Kate
* Plugfest #2 on June 22,  stand by for more info.
* Will forward to SPDX tech list.

## SBOM
* Gary - In 2.2,  a SpdxDocument is equivalent to an SBOM.
* Sean - From discussions, document conveys more than a single SBOM - package object class,  ...  content that isn't an SBOM.   That's why we have Package be called SBOM.  Didn't recall the conclusion.
* Gary - thanks for recollection.   Package can be thing being described.   Package can be dependency.   In 2.2 Files analyzed is set to false,  Bill of Materials of components.   We'll need to be careful here.   Package is not always 100%, but bill of materials is always a package.
* Sean - Subclass of package called SBOM - would be able to clarify a lot of the confusion.
* Gary - In 2.2  FilesAnalyzed flag, to understand the semantics,  if subclass of package called SBOM, have take on the meaning of filesAnalyzed.   Detailed.
* Nisha - Users may assume that files referred to as 'documents' are not machine-readable
* Bob - concern that we should move 3.0,   2.2 will functionally get us there.   Being explicit why we're doing 3.0,  features.
* Gary - Best to start to document - Here's the improvements between 2.2 and 3.0 to look forward to.   Some of the compatibility issues we're working towards.
* AI:  Bob to start to take a pass at what should be in 3.0 beyond what we're doing today.   w/ Sean, Gary, William

* Sean - future abstraction needs to be clarified.  In 3.0 this needs to be clarified.

* Gary - it starts at the "document" with "DESCRIBES".   Document is what is handed between vendors, so document is an SBOM.

* Sean - we're calling an envelope - handle external mapping of ids for a document.   Clearly the object that is the BOM.    Root element like document.    Recommending a subclass of package called BOM.
For 3.0 - subclass of BOM of Package.

* Nisha - receive an XL spreadsheet - that describes a bill of materials that go onto a bread board.   BOM or document?  Contents - is the BOM,  Artifact is the spreadsheet.
* Sean - Spreadsheet is a serialization of the concept of BOM class.
* Nisha - so the format of the BOM is not in scope?   Digital representation is not in scope for model.
* Alexios - yes, that's the serializations.
* Sean - from Model, multiple serializaiton formats.   JSON, etc. (even different JSON ones)   Focus is getting consistency on the model.   For Sean, does MVP express what we're wanting to express.    3 things out.

* Alexios - what does the 60 day guidance consist of ?
* Sean - its going to be saying what it includes,   we're working on a "how".
* Bob - executive order,  may be moving the bar.   Doesn't hurt us, but we're aiming at target.  Current,  2.2 covers, but 3.0 we will be able to cover likely extensions.   Broader than current list. *

* Nisha:  what about just called Document as an SBOM
* Sean: we will miss out some use cases we have already.
* Gary:  we have a use case of SPDX document containing only a set of license;  also may be used to convey just a patch.   Support having the subclass.   Would be compatible example.
* Sean:  Registry and set of SBOMs, can be conveyed referenced to set of BOMs.,  level of abstratctions.
* Neesha:  Can't we do this today?
* Kate: We can do it today.
* Sean: All about clarity and new functionality.

* Kate:  Changing DESCRIBES to migration.
* Sean:   Root Element is used to be what DESCRIBES points to
* Gary:  If we introduce SBOM class,  don't always know the use case that produces the document.

* Kate:  Should we SBOM type class - source,  binary, manifest, ....
* Gary:  We could represent them as subclasses,   type would be name of class - include type name in serializations.
* Topic for future discussion, once we start modeling SBOM as a subclass of package.

* Sebastian Crane - how does SPDX compare to SWID & CycloneDX?
* Kate - Minimum NTIA efforts are able to translate between all 3 today.
* Thomas - re: CycloneDX - we should be at parity.
* Sebastian - will they all be one standard in future?
* Bob - the attempt to consolidate didn't work.   3.0 is where we're aiming at the wider set of workflows.   Transforms possible today.    By tooling and automation, will become a dominent player.
* Thomas - also points to EU legislation emerging, but its sector specific.  Companies working with are asking.  EU seems to be lining with Biden EO.
* Bob - Biden EO talks about Supply Chain Integrity and other projects....
* Kate - details about what LF is supporting related  LF Blog post - https://linuxfoundation.org/en/blog/how-lf-communities-enable-security-measures-required-by-the-us-executive-order-on-cybersecurity/

## Core or Base?
* Sean: Profiles don't align to namespaces - so core & software .... then call it base.
* Bob: Two audiences - doing BOMs - so core is just BOM.     SBOM profile should be core + software.
  * Kay: +1 for Core if its just the core namespace.   Minimal thing that supports the supply chain evidence.   One
 activity is an SBOM,  another is about EOL,  another about vulnerability.
* Sebastian:  Fundamental as an alternate name?
  * Sean:  Just core namespace its core.
  * Alexios: +1 for core
  * Sean: SBOM is the basics about SBOMs... ie.  core + software.

## Plugins
* How handle multiple plugins that are going to be emerging?
* Thomas, Gary, Alexios - handle as repo per pluging - ie. SPDX/npm-plugin, SPDX/pypi-magic

## Future
* Template closure - when Gary/Alexios/Kate/Sean can all attend
* PR with an initial Linkage Profile proposal (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/513)
* William - Review Artifact, Package, File, Snippet, etc.
* Core Profile - content writeup  - is it base or core?    Add in profiles as a pull request.

### Parking:  Issues to be unblocked
* Format to put examples in (Serialized examples) - how we can make compact and expand.   (Alexios document of decisions).   Are we changing class descriptions?  different information model?  what is mapping.
* How to represent spreadsheet in examples/serialization.
* Goals of SPDX - related to simplicity and use cases not brought to team.
