SPDX Tech Team Minutes, January 26, 2021

Attendees:
* Steve Winslow
* Gary O'Neall
* Rose Judge
* Alexios Zavras
* Nishad Thalhath
* Kate Stewart
* Bob Martin
* Nisha Kumar
* Sean Barnum
* Jim Hutchison
* Kay Williams
* Peter Shin
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Cox

Regrets:
* William is unable to attend

Agenda:
* Meeting time - Doodle?
* Alexios & Gary - Specification format,  Bob see if Philippe can attend  - first part of meeting. - 45 min
* William & Sean - Naming  continued. - 45 min -- deferred to next week.
* SPDX 2.2 Java vs YAML handling of DocumentDescribes

Notes:
* Minutes for call
  * are recorded live at: https://spdx.swinslow.net/p/spdx-minutes
  * archived at: https://github.com/spdx/meetings
* Meeting time:   Kate will send out a doodle/email with options this week.
  * Per request from Alexios - 60 vs. 90 minutes as well.   Possibly survey?
  * Same time to meet next week,  decide in 2 weeks time.

* Specification Format Discussions (Alexios leading)
  * Notes can be found at: https://docs.google.com/document/d/13PojpaFPdoKZ9Gyh_DEY-Rp7lldyMbSiGE3vCRQhR9M/edit#
  * We would like to have all that we have today...  so challenge was looking at requirements.
  * Sean: Expressive, deterministic and machine-readable are ideal goals here
  * OWL/SHACL most successful
    * On2Spy good tool to translate OWL/SHACL to text/human readable
    * High level of specificity
    * SHACL can be used to translate the OWL to implementation schemas (e.g. XSD or JSON Schema)
    * Support of tooling for things like Docgen
    * Document generation can use templates to generate the documentation in a customized manner
    * Derive a GraphUL from the OWL/SHACL then generate code modesl from GraphUL
    * AI:  Sean to provide links to some of the documentation he's aware of.

* Reservations for OWL/SHACL -  letting people continue to use what they know.
  * Proposal is to use text is restricted/defined, and we can automatically generate the OWL from it.
  * Goal is to not have OWL as main editing platform.

* OWL as source of truth, has restrictive formating rules.
  * Markdown as collaborative tool,  has limitiations for translating to model
  * we'd need to use some predefined types.    Should be fine.
  * analysis from Gary so far is athttps://docs.google.com/document/d/1EGoAmKxPfmmlF3XV6fXwNmsCiFKLH83Bhh8_xrmGhko/edit?usp=sharin
  * this analysis will create the template.
  * AI:  Gary need link to William's latest template:

* SPDX 2.2 question:  DocumentDescribes missing documentation and SPDX 2.2 requires DESCRIBES relationship when SPDX document has more than when package.  Why do we require a DESCRIBES relationship when documentDescribes is already there. Question popped up in ORT PR where SPDX Java Library and ORT currently do not agree what is valid SPDX

  * Related tickets:
    * https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/pull/3521
    * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/395 - Add documentation for `documentDescribes`
  * SPDX 2.2 question from Stephanie Neubauer on spdx@lists.spdx.org looking for an example how to reference from one SPDX document to another. Thomas: I know we have an example somewhere, can someone share a link
  * json and yaml - you can do one or other;  so if there's a problem,  it could be tooling.
  * pointing to root package or packages.
  * Only have to specify documentdecribes in JSON & YAML,  don't need to do relationship.
  * Thomas:   AI:  Open a bug against the new tools
  * Showing how to refer for from one document to another.   Examples are:
      https://github.com/swinslow/spdx-examples

Next Meeting:
* Status:  Formatting & process of collaboration continued.  Gary analysis.   - 30 min
* William & Sean - Naming  continued (external map). - 45 min
