# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, March 23, 2021

## Attendees
* Sean Barnum
* William Bartholomew
* Henk Birkholz
* Adrian Diglio
* John Horan
* Nisha Kumar
* Steve Lasker
* Bob Martin
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schutt
* Peter Shin
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Kate Stewart
* Steve Winslow
* Alexios Zavras

## Agenda

* External Map class and Linkage profile (Nisha)
  * External Map & External Reference ... Class vs. Property. (Sean to propose definition as External Map and External Reference.   Need to get everyone aligned)
* Work on model updates  (William)
  * Discussion of properties that have moved from Document to Element.


## Notes

### External Map
External Map & Gaps: https://hackmd.io/Xbvo1jjKSwqGLnGeL3bWZg?edit
- discussion on referring from one document to another document - trying to understand how to reference external documents in 3.0 compared to 2.2.
- Review of the 2.2 serialization
- Review of the proposed 3.0
- Discussion on Element serialization - proposal for 3.0 be elements rather than "packages" and "files" and use "@type" to determine the type
- We could still retain the "native" JSON format
- Steve reviewed an example of using external refs in 2.2
- Walked through a container example
- Updated Nisha's example with 2.2 external refs
- Discussion of using container GUID
- Steve: use of http:... in Namespace, is causing confusion.
- Companies want to take control of what they depend on...   no one unique.
- Airgap into scope, what's going to be there.   How to find unique thing.
- 2.2 example using Maven - relies on conventions outside the standard.
- 3.0 standard for all artifacts?   Can we convention on how things are linked?
- Maven has a convention that we ride along with.
- Containers can come up with their space?   Certainly this is a goal for 3.0

- Nisha: External Map belongs in a linkage profile.
- Gary: External References being a separate profile would be interesting to think out.

### External Map definition
- see email from Sean - to discuss next week.

### Model
- Annotation - ok to be element
- External Reference - include it as optional field in element.
- Desire to see serializations of some this.


## Future Agenda Topics
* FSFE - having profile that relates to the orginator of code,  pull in legal.   FSFE - structuring of metadata,  manual use of SPDX standard.    Invite - ( Steve, ReUSE folks )
* Legal Profile -
* Identity - ...
