# SPDX Tech Team meeting, November 30th 2021 -

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary ONeall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* Kate Stewart
* Mark Gisi
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew
* Thomas Steenbergen

## Agenda
   Continue discussion on Collections and Finalize

## Notes

David Kemp sent slides to SPDX mailing list with examples of 'information' and 'data' with regard to SPDX data.

William - we were looking to have Package class have the behaviour of Artifact and Collection. We then decided to make Package derive exclusively from Artifact and use Relationships to collate other elements in a package.

Bob - Collection is like a catalogue; it doesn't contain related items but lists many different items.

David K - Collection is a physical list of member elements

Kate - ContextualCollection is like Document is with SPDX 2.2, a grouping of related things.

Sebastian - discussion of debian distro use case, how it could be modeled.

David K - having Package contain a list of member files as a member would be beneficial, however duplicating the existing relationships doesn't seem a good idea.  Relationship has CONTAINS / CONTAINED_BY and DEPENDS ON / DEPENDENCY_OF types plus the completeness property.  This is reasonable for Package, for which full information may not be known. Package inherits from Artifact, not from Collection, and uses only Relationship to specify package composition. Collection has an element property (semantically "memberElement") which is the authoritative /complete membership graph of the Elements in the collection.

Nisha - Go language example discussion.

David E - Make process, generating of multiple binaries, or configurable installation of binary package. Install property - install-time creation and/or choice of SBOM information because the installed components may be specific to the device.
William - SPDX is a communication language - what want to communicate, and to what depth.   Author of document decides what want to communicate.
Jeff - Agree w/ David E's example, we should provide a clear way to communicate when package/file/snippet is generated. SoftwarePurpose string contains "Source", suggest we add "Build" and "Run

Sebastian - how track packages within an organization over time.   Database of tracking use case.  GNOME example.  Components within GNOME.  Goal is to find every version, without cycling through a linked list.

Maximillian - reminder that name may not be stable over releases.    Project knows where it comes from, not all of the releases.   Component in SW360 can have relelases.

William - Consider project as an identity.   Project is informal, organization has a formal legal entity.   Example a package originated by debian release.

Sebastian - how to find the latest version.   William - need to know the versioning set.

William - think of describing github commit.

William - (+1 from David K and David E) dynamic SBOMs representing the installed state of a device / endpoint.

Kate - if make Organization have type (legal, project), not sure will be intiuitive.  Although as long as heirarchy, should be able model Zephyr.

Maximillian - Project is mixing two concepts,  like to see as a type in Organizations. Project is the origanization versus the people (community)?   Example of how have all versions of openSSL.

Jeff:   +1 for Org & Project, keeping them separate.  I think we can communicate the community by creating relationships between members (Person in the model) and the Org or the Project.

William:  going through skydrive example to illustrate the lineage.   project vs. package sucession.  SPDX intent is to create the reality of situation.   Succession is needed.    Challenge about cutoff points

Max - be happy with UID for identifiers and successors.

Kate - Is-alias-of as a relationship?  possible for 3.0.    Max & Sebastian - "same-as" prefer.

William Conclusion:
    *Package, Contextual Collection, and contains relations have build up some agreement.
    * Open:  Do we really need this disctinction  of contextual collections?   would context suffice.  David K to put proposal on mailing list.
