# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, April 27, 2021

## Attendees
* Sean Barnum
* William Bartholomew
* John Horan
* Nisha Kumar
* Max Mehl
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schutt
* Kate Stewart
* Steve Winslow
* Alexios Zavras
* Steve Lasker
* William Cox
* Sebastian Crane
* Maximillian Huber
* David Kemp
* 17814244095
* Bob Martin
* Jim Hutchinson
* Adrian Diglio

## Agenda
* Reuse Profile (Max)
* Profile, Namespace, etc. (Sean)

## Notes

### REUSE profile
* think of as a subset of fields
* desire is to store in file as comment but some are looking for bulk version at directory level.
* want to see supported in SPDX.   Prepopulated subset going into SPDX,  format of such a file.
* See https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/appendix-IX-file-tags/ for where these "File Tags" were defined in SPDX 2.2 and https://reuse.software/spec/ for the broader REUSE spec.
* Steve:  concern about moving away from file level.
  * Max: Current reliance to DEP5 files,  having multiple in repository.
  * Kate: Lets us capture places where comments be added easily - images, icons, etc.
  * Max: Preference order:  File, license, Bulk (would be replacement for DEP5)
  * Steve: Like the approach.
  * Alexios: Scripts could then go an update file level.... ;-)
* Kate:  Concern that something like PVC should be made possible, to identify when something is added to the directory after the reuse.yaml file.
* Steve:  Send to SPDX legal list.
* Steve:  Would this be considered an SPDX document itself?  or hinting information for someone to create an SPDX document.
   * Gary:  Its not really a full SPDX document,  but it is a document that should be specified within an SPDX specification.   Possibly as a separate chapter in the specification.    Preference is to use SPDX term,  or something either  SPDX-TagValue term
   * Alexios: This is similar how to use SPDX in your files.  This is more for how to describe for your project, beyond each file.  REUSE.yaml file.   Then tooling can translate from REUSE.yaml to a full SPDX document.
   * Gary: Seperate own chapter makes sense.
   * Steve:  For the license,  keep it as "SPDX-License-Identifier:"  as a recognized assumption
   * Gary:  Show how the mappings happen in the chapter
   * Sebastian:  Can it be anywhere file tree?  directory
   * Max:  Yes,  defining sub directories at a high level,  or put in directory, is all options.   Want to avoid having to do extra copies.
* Sebastian:  Want to be sure its not an endorsement as a best practices.
   * Max:  Its already there with DEP5 & filename.license.  Pragrmatic perspecitive having something available is better than nothing else.
   * Steve:  Makes sense for SPDX to define some recognized ways,  directory by directory bulk ways, ...  do it standardized so tools can read it, etc.   Rather than natural language in README files.
   * Sebastian:  Completely in favor of replacing DEP5 file, not license files.
* Sebastain:  what about http: - replace this,  proposal gets license.
   * Alexios:  Server to transmit the headers.
* Gary: Allow any SPDX property to be conveyed in these files?   Possibly more than the source, the package info in YAML file.   May overalp too far.   Any property?
   * Steve:  At the file level its happening that way today.  Can annotate these as well.  Interested in seeing package tags being part of this.
   * Gary:  We could also extend to non legal use cases....
   * Steve:  We didn't have a way in the past of tieing to bulk set of files, and this was a missing element.   Still want to see this as hinting to an SPDX document producer (resolving precedence issue, etc.)    An SBOM can't have internal conflicts.
* Sebastian:  SPDX-Lite?
    * Gary: we will have to document this overlap, and allowing package level to be added.
* Sebastian:  3 cases - end user,  packagers, an intermediate file for someone who whould want to generate both.
   * Max:  want to make it easy for non-legal people to generate,  helper tool.   Include in their processes.  Make DEP5 file obsolute, and something more flexible and user friendly.  Possibly more audiences, mostly normal users without that much legal training.
* Alexios:
    * in Github issue,   avoid introducing new terms.
    * see link to thread,   option 1-3;   please avoid #4
    * if no preference,  have same approach as SPDX, convenient but not necessary
    * YAML SPDX example: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/development/v2.2.1/examples/SPDXYAMLExample-2.2.spdx.yaml

* Conclusion:  Look at extending the current chapter and permitting package level,  tags prepended by SPDX-...
  * Gary to update the issue and point to the minutes.

## Profile resolution
* Sean:  Profiles focusing on different areas,  or is it a compliance point.
  * Key thought:  I support this use of the standard, and these are things you have to meet.   Can support everything, but lets whole model hang together.
Groups work to define a "profile plan" in each of the working groups.
Markdown template about what it is focused on,  and then what are the concepts that need to be expressed.
Which pieces are referenced in the model.   For concepts that don't exist in the model, then propose what gets added to the model.
Architecture review for consistency on the overall.   Either to core or something wider.

* Kate:  Want to avoid having to do model and markdown
  * Sean: Agree - can go from either direction.
  * Kate: Thought we'd settled on going forward with Markdown.
  * Sean: Yes, that is what has been discussed so far

* Sean walked through template the parts taht would be additional proposals.
  * Kate:  what about when a profile makes things more restricted (ie. constraints)?
  * Sean:  Constraints would be conveyed in shapes.   Reference table,  and possibly new section for referenced constraints. ...   Needs to be added.
  * Gary: If we have two profiles that have contradictory constraints how can we resolve.   Test would be having one or more schemas that would validate, then will feel comfortable we've solved this.
  * Sean:  That makes sense.     Serialization could be added from here.   Semantic serializations would be straightforward and lossless.   JSON is straightforward,  but for other formats would be derived from this.
  * Gary:  Problems to think about:
    * Cardinality:  One says 0..*,  other says 1..* - how resolve this?
    * Different enumerations (go into complete list) - probably solved,  goes in master list.
  * Sean:  General model has to be broadest.    Particular profile may define tighter constraints for shapes.     Must conform to additional constraints as defined in profile.    Should pass the general and specific.   But differing profiles need to document any mutually conflicting contradictions, then no-one can be conformant to both profiles at same time.

* Add to guiding principles - profiles should avoid conflicts in constraints when it could be possible.

* Sean to update diagram to make it explicit that markdown is source, and model is generated from it until we find a reason that won't work.
