# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, May 25, 2021

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* David Kemp
* Jeff Schutt
* Jim Hutchison
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Shin
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* Steve Winslow
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew
* William Cox


### Regrets
Alexios Zavras
Gary O'Neall
Kay Williams


## Agenda
* Core Profile - content writeup  - is it base or core?    Add in profiles as a pull request.
* PR with an initial Linkage Profile proposal (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/513)
* Kate - Timeline estimates -  do we want a "spec-a-thon" to get through base?

## Notes

### Core vs. Base
* William Bartholomew can live with Core.

### SBOM subclass
* Two boxes to overall diagram - general agreement.   BOM to right of Package,   SBOM to the right of SoftwarePackage.
* Kate would like to revisit terminology for Package/SoftwarePackage with Migration

### Linkage Profile
* Two options  - Refer to external documents for the elements that are within the document.
  * If you use just core to describe references,  document becomes too big to grok.
  * Concern is artifact listing all of elements,   ie.  Operating system listing 100 components.
  * Can you use core to just describe one artifact,  then use link or external map to handle as in option 2.
  * Nisha - was working off of hackmd doc (https://hackmd.io/Xbvo1jjKSwqGLnGeL3bWZg) , trying to model this.   Layout hoping to see.
  * AI:  Sean to meet up with Nisha offline.

### Core Profile
Pending:  Sean's 3 items

## Profile Status & Timeline
* Core -...
   * Serializations (default) - .spdx.json
      * need to clarify json or jsonld or both (David infavor of both)
   * Serialization for Migration - .spdx, .spdx.rdf, .spdx.xml, .spdx.yaml, .spdx.xls
      * compact forms - implied elements in serialization.
   * Serialization for other targets - ??
   * Target:   End of June

* Licensing - Field names are pretty stable.
   * Part 1 - Rewrite in "newer format"  -
   * Part 2 - Need to add in "Other Licensing Info,  and definition of license model"  (pulling pieces from RDF together)
   * What about file copyright text - cardinality one,  multiline text field in 2.2;  but multiple is fine either way. Cardinality will be 0-infinity in 3.0.
   * Target end of July.

* Vulnerability
   * Adding bit about quality,  have vulnerability there mostly,  aligning with other standards (mostly bolt on).
   * How interact with CSAF and other standards is open question.   Depending on core at this point.   Need a meeting.
   * Need to see core serializations.
   * Quality to sequential release,  cut off scope.    First pass to narrow scope.
   * Jim:  recommend just aim for CVE title & number - keep scope narrow,  lots of ways to go wrong.
   * Peter: +1 on narrowing the scope that has essential functionalities.
   * Target:  core + vulnerability minimum profile.    + 1 month.

* Custody (Provenance) - what are we missing?  TBD - pending Core.
  * Adding attestations to the elements.   Sean & Bob are thinking on this.
  * Digital identity would be an attestation.   Who ran it, built it, produced SBOMs.   Identity may need refinement.
  * Factory image,  work product move through station, and collect to layout.
  * Think Provenance, even though we label it Custody...   Bob ok with this.
  * Target:

* Usage - get status from monthly call.
  * pending external linkage info,  have some basic fields to add.   Depending on core & template.
  * Target:  what's defined 1 month after core solidified

* Build  (Pedigree) -
   * Things in common,  bake into core.
   * More general
   * Target:

## Spec-a-thon interest?
   * Core - William,  Nisha, Kate, Bob, Sean, Gary


## Future
* Template closure - when Gary/Alexios/Kate/Sean can all attend
* Sean - open issues with model?
* William - Review Artifact, Package, File, Snippet, etc.

### Parking:  Issues to be unblocked
* Format to put examples in (Serialized examples) - how we can make compact and expand.   (Alexios document of decisions).   Are we changing class descriptions?  different information model?  what is mapping.
* How to represent spreadsheet in examples/serialization.
* Goals of SPDX - related to simplicity and use cases not brought to team.
