# SPDX Technical Team Meeting, 20 July 2021

## Attendees
* Adrian Diglio
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary ONeall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* Jim Hutchinson
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Matt Rutkowski
* Nirmal Suthar
* Peter Shin
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda

### Demo of spec processing (GSoC project)
* Nirmal reviewed goals of his project
* LALR(1) based parser,   semantic checking next
* Able to parse 3.0 version of spec template in the github repo.   Creates namespaces and checks for duplicate properties.
* Sean offer to help with SHACL and RDF

### Spec Clarifications (Alexios is asking)

* Element name mandatory or optional?
  * https://github.com/spdx/spec-v3-template/issues/5
  * Diagram has 0..1,  Sean has it 1..1 -  Sean agrees it is optional.

* What is a rootElement on a Document or Package?
  * Element is list of all the element that are part of the BOM
  * This is the one or more primary focus (rootElement can be multiple values)
  * Inherent part - simplicity to get to root.
  * JSON & YAML have document describes.
  * we have two ways of recording the same info: rootElement and Relationship: DESCRIBES
  * nobody wants the two ways
  * Some favor deprecate the DESCRIBES relationship in 3.0  and just use property
  * Which classes have the property?   Document, BOM, ...   Document and ContextualCollection.
  * For sure the document it would mandatory?    What happens if it just a list of things. rootElement is 0..*
  * Tooling will need to handle cases when no root element.    Contextually aware.
  * If only identities, then identy referenced in the root.
  * If not any root elements, all the elements are root. Graph may have intrinsic roots even if rootElement is empty. Graph cycles have no root. Directed trees have a unique root. Undirected trees have an arbitrarily-selected root among connected elements - selecting a root uniquely determines direction.  rootElement might be interpreted as "places to start looking for reachable elements" - unlisted and unreachable elements may be pruned.
  * Has to be 0..*
  * ContextualCollection is effectively a bundle.

  * Would there be an SBOM profile?
    * Different SPDX documents reference each other, need to bring together to reason.

  * Elements describe the profile they comply with.
    * It can be per document, and serialize the document to be a short hand to defined.
    * If they are defined in document, but not override at specific element,  then all the elements in the document inhereit what is at the document level.

* Would like to see documented beyond exchange.
   * Once it is received,  implementers like its own models.
   * Tools need to talk to each other.    Streaming is considered as an exchange.
   * Do disconnected element having different profiles really occur in streaming. (scope of context)
   * Analytics and analysis - different element may be defined in a different time and place.
   * Elements to different profiles - can we still interact.
   * William's example - critical safety profile- all elements comply vs.  some elements conform to profile.   Gary indicates we could satisfy with multiple use cases.   Assembler of document knows what they are complying to.   Applying it to element level.
   * API - Give SBOM for repository - only one response?
   * Tools may not just be producing elements.    Would there be exchanges without a document.   Streaming - may be showing elements going back and forth.   Homework,  to do detail on streaming  use case.   New use case for 3.0.   Document as the envelope for the stream?   Protocol version, etc.
   * Namespace - does element always have a namespace?   therefore some properties .
   * William and Gary to have an offline discussion.    Uses documents to retain information.   Point at which the information is created.   Github internals?
   * Document - Contextual collection - namesapce - different interpertation.   Elements being globally unique.   Elements of namespace.   List of identities.    Defined from namespace of producers,   document - defines its namespace, so that elements within document, do not need to have full id.    Deserialize uses names space.
   * Gary:  Document is protocol negotiation
   * Sean: General use cases streaming
   * Suggestion on how to close on these issues - Gary heard 3 different issues:
       * How to support the streaming use case;
       * how to support the GitHub use case;
       * Do we support other non-transfer use case
  * For github use case - Kare, Gary & William
  * For handling streaming use case - need to understand this in more details.
     * Web is a bunch of documents and it can link things together.
     * Graph is a bunch of elements.    Has namespace & identifiers.
     * Document represents a unit of transfer.
     * To do streaming requires atomic independence of element.   Key aspect.
     * A Document is a container for a grouping of SPDX-3.0 content with no presumption of shared context.
     * NTIA use case don't talk about transfer.

* Artifact / Agent
  * https://github.com/spdx/spec-v3-template/issues/4
  * Agent could be identity. tool, org  ... tying to created by.   Agent needs to be added to model.  It's not part of the diagram.
     - alternative 1: Artifact inherits from Element and Agent
     - alternative 2: Artifact inherits from Element.  Tool inherits from Artifact and Agent
DaveK: Artifact is always a passive object - a lump of data. Agent is always an active Identity/entity, including a process running a program.
  * Whatever noun, streaming necessitates a way to refer to the parts/elements, such as enabling a REST/database query for elements of the SPDX/SBOM associated with an item/program/container  I think Tool inherits from Identity(Agent) and Artifact.   Rather than Artifact ineriting from Agent.
  * TODO:   Synch up William on diagram.
  * One place to look at model.

### Remaining model issues

##
* Concerns still about about what's in document vs. element.   Some things should only be at document level.    Pushing to serialization discussion?  Sean has some use cases outside of interchange.
