# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, Nov 9, 2021

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Maximillian Huber
* Peter Shin
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* Sean Barnum
* Takahasi Ninjouji
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Update from Member Summit & SPDX Membership
* Different forms of collection discussion
* Review in model

## Notes
* Member Summit
   * Supply chain security is a dominent theme
   * Member sign up available https://enrollment.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/?project=spdx
* SPDX License List - new version (3.15) will be published later this week
* New release of SPDX tools is coming out.

### Contextual Collection
* William - in previous model drafts for 3.0, Document and ContextualCollection both independantly inherited from Element. Now, they are both inherited from an abstact class 'Collection'.
* Gary - is ContextualCollection concrete or abstract?
* William - Sean has use cases for it to be concrete.
* Kate - shouldn't Package & SBOM be an artifact
* William:  should ArtifactURL be a part of element.
* Sebastian: Package purpose vs. contextual collection?
   * William:  Software may have different ones than Hardware
* Sean:  Definitions help us - maybe time to revisited.
   * Sebastian: For coreutils, can i not have an element that is is a package, and 3 different files .tar, .zip, bzip, we have relationship from file to package,  3 to describe physical, and 1 to describe package.
   * Gary: Trying to avoid multiple inheritence, complicates implementation.
* David:  SBOM is a collection of elements that describe software packages (real things).  An SBOM is also a file that can be downloaded.  The metadata describing the SBOM file is not the same as the metadata describing the packages.  No need for multiple inheritance, and Artifact should remain distinct from Collection.
* David: SBOM is a collection of information that describes software. It can have one serialization in a File, which will be an Artifact.
* Henk: Consumer of SBOM, suppier chain and user chain.   Responsibility on user to fetch it all.   For SBOM not good, but ok for vulnerabilities.    Completeness with respect to the release.   Collection is what hand over to user side of the supply chain.   If split appart, put work on user.    Vulnerabilities & Defects - evolve over time.   Don't think its the user's responsibility.
    * Kate:  Example of Debian Distro - packages and ISO image.
    * Henk: The CD Rom - described in one SBOM with all sources references.
    * William:  This is a serialization concern.   EIther full graph down to sources, or use external references.
    * Sebastian:  Docker image - debian image, need sources for entirity of debian, since distributing them.    External references let us get to the source code, which is necessary for distribution

* Alexios - Packages vs SBOM
   * David: Serialization that an SBOM is describing.
   * Alexios:  Package which is an abstract collection
   * William:  Artifact URL belongs to package not the file.    Examples Docker files.   Package URL is always an identity, but sometime location information (hints).

* William - Artifact URL - use cases beyond software.   We wanted to be able define an external reference, external PURLs, wanted a preferred canonical one at the element level.
    * Henk:  Highlighting will have to deal with output, and not sure consumer will understand.
    * Alexios:  Artifacts are not only packages.
    * William:  If we want to include a book - we would use ISBN.
    * Bob:  Terms need to be well defined.

* Sean: we discussed in previous meetings that not all Elements are Artifacts. If an SBOM was serialilised, then it could produce three or more different files (JSON, Tag:Value, XML etc etc).  Annotations are not artifacts.
   * William think about SBOM is an artifact.  Kate agrees.
   * Jeff reminds of prior agreement not to conflate PURL with ArtifactURL.
   * William some packaging systems, location is inherent to identity - example:  NPM package.   Location + Name + Version.   For OCI - identity is cryptographic has, so don't need location.  Location may be provided as a hint.

* Henk:  Need a delta definition between Artifact URL and PURL.
   * William:  Artifcat URL extends beyond PURL.

* Jeff: rough consensus that an Artifact URI is the superset, whereas the Artifact URL is a subset specific to some package types (e.g. PURL), An analogy to the ArtifactURI is the UPC, or the IBSN...an identifier for a specific product or publication. Changed name in model from ArtifactURL to ArtifactURI

* Alexios:  Should there be a package URL in an Package?   rather than rely on inheritance for Artifact.
   * William:  We will loose Artifact an originator.   Example Docker Image layers.

* Should ExternalMap be a property of Collection?
  * All on call ok with it at this point.  (Gary had to talk through some things, but came around to it being ok)

* Problem areas for next meeting:
  * Package connecting to Artifact or Contextual Collection. or both (but this is multiple inheritance)
  * Should Elements be signable/hashable/verifiable?
  * Does the Element verifiedUsing property verify the integrity of an Element or the retrieved value of an Artifact?
    * Some artifacts can change value, so artifact integrity doesn't make sense for them.
    * If verifiedUsing applies to just immutable Artifacts, then we will need a different way to describe integrity verification of immutalbe Elements.
  * NamespaceMap (is it a property of Collection?) needs more discuss.

* Request from Thomas for discussion of the Package connections to go to the mailing list.
  * David to start the thread.
