# SPDX Technical Team Meeting, June 1, 2021

## Attendees
* Sean Barnum
* Henk Birkholz
* Sebastian Crane
* David Edelsohn
* John Horan
* Rose Judge
* David Kemp
* Karsten Klein
* Nisha Kumar
* Steve Lasker
* Bob Martin
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schutt
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Kate Stewart
* Steve Winslow
* Alexios Zavras
* Peter Shin
* William Bartholomew
* Matthew
* Karsten Klein
* Jim Hutchinson

### Regrets
* Kay Williams (conflict)
* William Bartholomew (missing first hour)

## Agenda
* Tools update
* NTIA 2 week feedback window on SBOMs
* External Reference URI format and External Document Reference format
* Sean - open issues with model?

## Notes:
* NTIA - https://www.ntia.gov/files/ntia/publications/frn-ntia_sbom_notice-rfc_5.27.21.pdf
  * what should be in base image - vulnerabiities - non surfaced in current statement.
  * Should vulnerabilities/defects be included or not?  specifically when its not impacted.
  * Assessment of characteristics of SBOM may not be minimal.
  * If containers rebuilt, then regenerate SBOM with git digests.    Reproducible build implications.

*  Tools Update
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-sbom-generator is early WIP
  * Kubernetes community is adopting SPDX, anyone in tooling talking to the Go comunity?
  * Steve wrote some of the initial Go prototypes,  but not info on how to analyze the existing go lang project.
  * Plan is to build on what the Go community has standards
  * Thomas - look for go-mod manager in ORT, they've implemented it there already.    Talk to Frank on ORT team.
   * Tweet from Dan Lorenc discussing the Go limitations: https://twitter.com/lorenc_dan/status/1397879783078379522

* External Reference
    *  externalReferenceType: package manager, persistent IDs, other
    *  Follow SPDX2.2 for the reference type: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/3-package-information/#321-external-reference
    * URI is in model,  but in 2.2 Category, Type, String today
    * Any reason why it shouldn't be a URI?   Different external reference types carry their own formats, and may not fold neatly into a URI.
    * PURL, SWHID, CPE are URIs    <Schema>:<valid>
    * May be worth adjusting the other package managers that are not URI compliant.    Deprecate types that aren't URIs?   Any external reference types that can't be folded into a URI?
    * Sean, Gary, Kate are good with this approach.

* External Document References  --> External Map
   * By pointing to something you know it is a specific SPDX document, can use prefix for ids.

* Discussion about types and URIs around external reference.   Type says interpret as one of those.
* Sean may make sense to refer to authority around as persistant ids.

* Gary suggests add in "comment" & "category" in External Reference model
   * Why not then just an element?
   * category may be an enumeration of type?
   * Agreement to add the comment (not category) with the caveat from Sean that it is getting close to being something we should subclass
* Alexios to be on point for discussion on template closure.

* Sean -
   * BOM vs. SBOM  -  see update to model
   * Legacy SPDX people - document compilation of content.
      * Concern about exchange - specification.   Same within a bundle.
* Complilation levels - 3 context.
     * From disucssion Package --> Contextual Collection,  SoftwarePackage --> Package (for compatibility pending review of properties)
  * Identity - Sean has new proposal for restructuring this



## Future
* Alexios -  Template closure - when Gary/Alexios/Kate/Sean can all attend
* William/Sean - Review Artifact, Package, File, Snippet, etc. properties.
* Sean - proposal identity to evolve

### Parking:  Issues to be unblocked
* Format to put examples in (Serialized examples) - how we can make compact and expand.   (Alexios document of decisions).   Are we changing class descriptions?  different information model?  what is mapping.
* How to represent spreadsheet in examples/serialization.
* Goals of SPDX - related to simplicity and use cases not brought to team.
