# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, June 15, 2021

## Attendees

* Alex Goodman
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Licquia
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Mark Gisi
* Nirav Patel
* Peter Shin
* Phillipe Ombredanne
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Winslow
* William Bartholomew



## Agenda
* Tools updates
* Reference container interaction (Steve Lasker on June 15th) - next week
* Hashing algorithms



## Notes

# Tools Update
* SBOM Generator
  * Go tools
  * Creates SBOM's automatically for several languages (NodeJS, Java, Rust, Go, etc.,)
  * Download or Git action
  * License detection
  * Provenance and dependency information
* Python tools
  * Jeff provided several PR's to improve the maintainability and quality
  * Dropped Python 2 support
  * More compliant with SPDX 2
  * Commandline SBOM generator - oriented towards the Python environment
* AI:  Depricate overlapping old tools needs to be handled.
* AI:  Gary to discuss Maven & Java plugins with Nirav.
* AI:  Nirav - License file is Apache-2.0,  not detected by github, needs to be fixed.
  * Steve will take a look at this.  Suspects its a naming of files issue.
  * Versioning of files - semantic versioning by preference expressed.
  * Sebastian willing to do restructring project to enable repo REUSE compliant.
    * Issue filed at: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-sbom-generator/issues/158
    * Steve willing to help with this also
* tools-java update- Gary https://github.com/spdx/tools-java
  * Added Sonarcloud to scanning
  * Made a 1.0 release over last weekend - please drop issues into github.
* Syft - Alex Goodman https://github.com/anchore/syft
  * Demo provided in call to show preliminary work.
  * SPDX 2.2 - reused tagvalue processor, and json -  try to avoid duplicate code.
  * More in depth functionality.
  * Verbage is directed towards software producers - rather than the analysis of container perspective.
  * Curious FilesAnalyzed in Spec - setting or not.     Recommendation is Set FilesAnalyzed to false, because it sets the exception the mandatory (hash) are included.

# Hashing algorithm
* Proposal to change required from SHA1 to SHA256 as recommended - Agreed in meeting.
* Proposal to remove/ban weaker hash algorithms
  * Different use cases - use MD5 for look up purposes.
  * recommendation is to use standard language: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119
  * Everyone agrees we shouldn't use a weak hash algorithm for integrity purposes.
  * Everyone agrees we can support discovery purposes using weak has algorithms (hint)
  * Propose:  update the documentation for intended purposes, and when you must/should use a stronger one.
  * David:  Open question about MD2, MD4, MD6 - how much is really out there?
  * Sean:  MD5 is every where - but MD2, MD4 only in microscopic communities.    Not intersect with our space.
  * Sean: propose to update spec with SHOULD and SHOULD NOT
  * Result:  Class Hash algorithm text for 3.0 should be updated to reflect this.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/106#issuecomment-562698471
* What about required Hash for document?  then Package Verification Code could adapted to it.  SHA1 or SHA256 or SHA512
* William: From the US perspective there would be pushback for anything that’s not NIST approved.
* SPDX-PVC - can switch it to be dependent on Hash selected for rest of the document - will go to 256 as well.

# JSON serialization discussion
* David Kemp - Data used to serialize an ontology.  Information model captures design decisions for representing ontology as data.
* Gary would like to see us working on the information model in parallel.
* Sean - information model as represented through serializations.   Implementation model for processing is needed too.   Be able to act as reference implementation model.   Be careful on how we do this.   What ever information model we do in parallel, that it is "a" model,  not "the" model (ie. there may be others for the knowledge model)
* Alexios: initial attempt towards OWL serialization https://github.com/spdx/spec-v3-template
