#SPDX Tech Team - October 19, 2021

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* Gary O'Neall
* John Horan
* Sean Barnum
* Nisha Kumar
* Jeff Schutt
* Maximilian Huber
* William Bartholomew
* Rose Judge
* Steve Lasker
* Sebastian Crane
* David Kemp
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Adrian Diglio
* David Edelsohn (IBM)
* Peter Shin (Canvas Labs Inc.)


### Regrets
* Kate Stewart

## Agenda
* Very brief update on the SPDX spec 3 repo setup - Alexios
* Identity Discussions to settle:
    * "Does an Element have an integrity check value corresponding to its IRI?"  (was can an element be considered immutable (ie. have an integrity value computed)? )
    * Can elements be duplicated into different documents.
    * Independent of the model, can you have multiple serializations with copies of the elements?  (ie. copy of standard licenses - even though they are immutable).
*  Repo cleanup
   * SPDX-tools-js - is forked from someone's personal.   Talk to William about this.   AI:  Gary to ask student.

# Very brief update on the 3.0 model repo
* Alexios created a new repo - completely empty - just the license and 3 files from the governance
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model
* Going to transfer files
* Will just be the model, not a complete replacement of the 3.0 spec
* Issues opened in the SPDX repo that are about the 3.0 model will be transferred to the new repo
  * Added a new tag for SPDX 3.0 model
  * 2 steps - one person tags the issues in the spdx-spec repo, another person moves the issues
* Alexios will setup the automatic generation
  * Will generate the files to a separate branch
* Question on whether we should move the model to the Github repo?
  * Sebastion - concern about the frequency of change - binary file
  * Suggestion on versioning with the date
  * William, Sean prefers storing the model in the repo

## Identity Discussion

### Immutability of Elements
If an element changes, is it a new element or do we need a new element?

* Sebastian - immutable
* Sean - immutable
* William - immutable
* Nisha - content addressable element considerations
  * The artifact is content addressable, but the element URI is different
  * Elements can't be content addressabile since there may be 2 or more different metadata representations for the same artifact (e.g. 2 persons come to a different conclusion on a license)
* Steve - If it's a future version of content, is a version?
* We can choose that anytime an element changes, a new element ID is created
* May or may not be point in time?
* William - for the purposes of this discussion, let's focus on the artifact not changing, just the metadata changing (the description changes)
* Potential complexity with multiple versions may require complex graph analysis
* Rose - Importance on timestamp (e.g. created timestamp) - requires immutability for the timestamp to be useful
  * Sean - if we have mutable, we would need "modified" field(s) in addition to created
* William - start from a position of mutability - reasons:
  * SPDX 2 - elements are immutable
  * Lots of use cases make assessments based on elements, mutating elements destroys the ability to make these assessment
* Henk - Why does the namespace change when you change document
  * Gary - reason is the document namespace is the unique portion of document URI in SPDX 2.0 - we don't necesarilly have to follow this convention in 3.0
* Henk - How do we manage the provenance of the document?
  * The document itself should not know it's versioning, only its URI
  * Use case of updating documents
  * Nothing wrong with keeping everything immutable and creating a system around it to track the versions/changes
* David - support immutability, use cases that require mutability can be examined and discussed later
* Alexios - Everything has to be specified at creation time, even comments
  * if you want to add a comment to an existing Element, maybe use an Annotation; or create a new Element pointing to the original
* Sean - long term mutability has value, but adds complexity (authority, change history)
  * Integrity checking is faster if elements are immutabile
* Steve - Can we say, everything is immutable, but we support additive information?
  * The additive information has an identity for who added it. You may dismiss badco added info.
* Steve Lasker - What I'm trying to understand is who something can be added to an SBOM. Is the creation of an SBOM at a point in time, itself immutable?
  * Sebastian - Steve, yes, that's how I'd see it.
* David - Elements can stand by themselves, so you can create amended elements
* No arguments for mutability - consensus immutable
* Sean need to define modifications to record relationships between elements (original, modified)

### Can an element exist in multiple documents?
* Is it physical serialization or in the model?
* Physical serialization - can more than one phyiscal serialization can contain the same element?
  * Many use cases require this - e.g. access to the data when is not availabil
  * Integrity checking is important
  * Sebastian - the ability to duplicate in separate serializations is more important than integrity
    * William disagrees - integrity / trust is important
  * Henk - definition of duplication - multiple encodings for the same things, not bytewise the same thing but talking about the same thing; separate talking about the same instance
    * William - if we assume elements cannot be changed, example - duplicate already created elements into a single serialized thing/response.  Could have a different serialization depending on what it selects.  Example - give more information to an auditor than to the general public.
    * "Duplicate" - definition
    * Analogy of "by reference" and "by value" - duplicating is "by value"
    * Discussion on compilation use case and other use cases where making a copy is convenient or necessary
      * Air gap requirements
      * Copying listed licenses
      * Referring to the same license from 2 packages using the same license ID
  * Discussion on definition of "Duplicate"
    * Representing the same element across different encoding - Need information model integrity which is separate from the serialized integrity check
      * Can use a canonical serialization format for integrity
  * Need a way to provide an information model integrity check for duplicates to work
    * Need a single physical representation for integrity checks
    * One suggestion is to have the canonical representation for serialization for integrity
    * Agreed there is a requirement for information model integrity, but the specific approach will be discussed later
  * Need to have a compare function - compare could be a shortcut, but requires external information
  * There may be different ways to achieve the integrity goals
  * From David - Henk mentioned "Internal" serialization used for calculating integrity.  We probably wouldn't define CBOR serialization for SPDX documents, but the SPDX canonicalization algorithm might use the most compact serialization (CBOR, or even better, RFC-791-style bits in boxes) as the canonical byte stream.  The requirement is lossless conversion to all other serializations.
  * Sebastian requested more information on serialization standards that support integrity checking
  * Agree an element can be copied between physical representations, but we need a way to verify integrity / equality
  * Need further discussion on integrity

## IANA Mime Types Update
* Rose submitted application for JSON formats to IANA
