# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, April 20, 2021

## Attendees
* Kate Stewart
* Gary O'Neall
* John Horan
* Nisha Kumar
* Alexios Zavras
* Steve Winslow
* Kay Williams
* Bob Martin
* Jeff Schutt
* Peter Shin
* William Bartholomew
* Thomas Steenbergen
* David Kemp
* Steve Lasker
* William Cox
* Karsten Klein

### Regrets
Sean Barnum

## Agenda
* GSoC Update (Alexios, Gary)
* Common Understanding of Terms -  Model, Profile, Extension, and Namespace. (Alexios)
* Review of Identity modeling (William)

## Notes

### GSoC Update
* 17 proposals,  covering ideas we had and a new one for license matcher.
* at least 3 reviews for each, and confirm which ones we are interested in.
* next step - #slots, and then accept proposals.

### Common Understanding of Terms -  Model, Profile, Extension, and Namespace. (Alexios)
* Model - Everything defined in the complete spec (all classes, enumerations, tags).
* Profile - Set of conditions to be fulfilled by some data.   Conditions would be cardinality, etc.
   * Steve will be working on the Licensing model, and the profile associated with licensing.   What's mandatory and what is not.    Field belongs to model, "mandatoriness" belongs to profile.
* Namespace - Private area for declaring classes and types without collisions with other namespaces.
  * For instance we want to see  aggregated licensing information together.
  * Gary's Test:  generate JSON schema,  and representation in serializations.
  * Concern that we need to work out details.
  * Model has a namespace, but serialization maybe doesn't.   Challenge is writing a schema to validate that the profile has been met.   How generate from Model, Profile, Namespace for multiple "areas of interest" - licensing & security for instance.
  * David - divide model up into separate packages, multiple namespaces.   Licensing package imported under licensing namespace.   Gary - works for single "area of interst", but multiple ones pose problems, since there might be interactions.
  * Bob - things formally known as profiles, are known as compliance points.   Claiming compliance with based on used cases.   Software compliance point.   Claiming core + software extensions.   Its all in the same model, its just what parts you are saying you're going to be able to support.
  * Gary - profiles was introduced to make it simpler for subset of use cases.   Was information hiding, as well as compliance.   Separating out is probably a good thing.
* Extension Point - these are things that go beyond the model, and permit extensions.   Example:  Commentor Annotations can be considered as extension points.  Other serialization formats beyond XML may have issues.
Things tried without changing model.
* William if think of profile as only able to making things more restrictivve,  if meeting multiple, then most restrictive must apply.    Can make it more restrictive in a profile basically,  not loosen refile.
* Chat: David Kemp (11:33 AM) - Gary's multiple inheritance problem is the rationale for defining both "class model" and "information model".  The IM does not have inheritance - types are defined for each namespace, e.g. a "licensingEntity" is a different type than a "xyzEntity".  The IM doesn't care if there is an Entity base class; each type has to be defined separately as if there were not.
* Chat: Gary ONeall(11:34 AM) - Agree on separating out the IM, we just need clear rules on how to map the IM to the different serialization formats - this may impact what is allowed in the IM

* Kay: How does this impact file structure?
   * Layout classes and properties
   * William: We can move files around as needed.
   * Nisha:  Compatibility matrix for properties in rows;  profile columns?
   * Gary: Think we can probably generate based on current document.   "Topic area" authors define what is key, and should be able to generate compatibility matrix.
   * File that defines the class, only defines the class, etc.    Profiles represent the constraints on the fields.   constraints:  Manditory (cardinality>=1), Cardinality are main, but there are others (relationship type),  see Alexios email

### Review of proposed Identity modeling (William)
* Challenge is what does it mean that identity with the document fields in element.
* Note: we need sean to participate in this discussion.
* William:  we want to be able to have relationships,  annotations, etc. against identities going forward.
* More flexible it makes it more complex,  element.
* Bob:  Full set of user communities not in this virtual community,  operational monitoring data.  Multidimension analysis is needed to avoid corruption.
* Concern about use cases, but need to get concrete.
* David Kemp:  Community larger than us,  database - has person table, etc.  can say persons stand by self, without referencing.   Defining everything as an element is a pre-requisite.
* Look to leverage HRXML for person role, to extend.   Friend of a Friend.
* Looking at defects - remediated by identity,
* Relationships related to identities need to be defined.
* William shared the [SPDX Model Diagram](https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/master/tech/SBOM%20Merged%20-%20Meeting%202021-04-20.png)

## Future Agenda Topics
* FSFE - having profile that relates to the orginator of code,  pull in legal.   FSFE - structuring of metadata,  manual use of SPDX standard.    Invite - ( Steve, ReUSE folks )
https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/502  (also may impact SPDX-Lite).   - ok try for next week.
* Integrity update & implications on signing and validation.  (Santiago, Kay) - early May
* Review definition with Sean
* William - Review Artifact, Package, File, Snippet, etc.
* Core Profile - content writeup
* Usage Profile - content write up

### Parking:  Issues to be unblocked
* Format to put examples in (Serialized examples) - how we can make compact and expand.   (Alexios document of decisions).   Are we changing class descriptions?  different information model?  what is mapping.
* How start writing definitions example. (Kay)
* How to represent spreadsheet in examples/serialization.
* Goals of SPDX - related to simplicity and use cases not brought to team.
