# SPDX Technical Team Meeting, 13 July 2021

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Nirmal Suthar
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Shin
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* Steve Winslow
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda

### Minimum elements of an SBOM
The [US] Department of Commerce, in coordination with the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), published the “minimum elements” for a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM).
announcement https://www.ntia.gov/blog/2021/ntia-releases-minimum-elements-software-bill-materials
report https://www.ntia.gov/files/ntia/publications/sbom_minimum_elements_report.pdf
- Hash was removed; Timestamp was added
- SWID tag recognition - Henk can provide code/regexp for this
- we should address everything included in the document
- we can use the document to help us promote SPDX


### Follow up - unique identifier
It would be nice to allow SPDXRef strings to use the pURL format (it currently only accepts [.-])
* SPDX 2.2. validation tool will not accept,  can we adjust this for SPDX 3.0?
* Can it accept [\:@#?]   Can we extend to this?    Internal document identifier vs. External Identifier
* Inside the internal document today
* Challenge is the removal of the extra characters if identifier is generated.   Losing details in PURL.
* Recommend PURL be stored as ExternalRef today - which has validation and not needs translation - https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/3-package-information/#321-external-reference
* with PURL as a valid type for External Reference at: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/appendix-VI-external-repository-identifiers/#purl
* In SPDX 3.0 the artifactUrl is a PURL,  so will be easier, but a separate property.

### Criteria for Acceptance & Removal into SPDX GitHub organization
* Notes to inform policy that will be on web site.   ref:  CNCF

* Incubating or Experimental or Sandbox (no guarantees, but public share)
   * GSoC,  not production,  collaboration
   * Hosting decision and criteria.
   * Need a sponsor/mentor from regular SPDX tech group

* Acceptance
   * Has an SPDX SBOM for project (able to reuse.software)
   * Must be OSI approved license
   * Passing CII Best Practices badge "passing"
   * Tech call review before it goes from incubating to a "blessed" project
   * More than one contributor with commit access
   * Active contributors

* Pinned Repository Status
  * Tech call review before it gets pinned.

* Removal: archival
   * alternatives:
      - separate repo get set up as an Archive to be set up.  "spdx-archive" separate org.  Orgs marked.
      - or mark repo in "spdx" org as archived
   * Criteria - Inactivity for a year - response to issues and willing to make changes if appropriate
   * Must support current version or prior version of the specification
   * Technical review before it gets archived

* Make Active Again
   * Maintainer steps up and agrees to maintain for the next year
   * Sucessor plan
   * Technical review that maintainer is competent,  limited scope of write access to that repo.

   AI: Kate to turn to google doc,  and bring back for review.
   AI: Sebastian will help move policies to web site once we all agree.


### SPDX v3 Templates
Sean distributed a markdown template via email, Alexios proposed a collection of GitHub files in a simplified format. Dave working on proof of concept to generate serialization from templates: https://github.com/davaya/spdxv3-template-tool.
For comparison, a hand-generated serialization model is https://github.com/davaya/spdxv3-template-tool/blob/main/Schemas/spdx3-sections.jidl; template needs to contain sufficient information to generate an equivalent model.
* David Kemp did a walk through to generate and flag issues - example namespace URI.
* None of the separate files had relevant information imported.
* Separate files for each of the classes
* Markdown table is fairly straightforward to parse.
* Ease of typing and ease of use are criteria to consider.
* Tooling to check for completeness and generate information model.
* Goal is to generate a serialization from templates.


### FileTypes

* Proposal to add in content/logical vs physical - splitting up current filetype.
* Examples:
    * https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/media-types.md
    * https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml
    * https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6838
* Discussion on how an archive is represented.
* Package in SPDX is a logical package - logical grouping of things, collection artifacts, etc.
* General agreement on the call that yes, lets split it up,  with IANA media-types.
AI:  William to take a pass at split and document in what is in each type.

### Next week
Element name - is it mandatory 1 or optional.
