# SPDX Technical Team meeting,   October 12, 2021

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Peter Shin
* Sebastian Crane
* Takahsi Ninjouji
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Batholomew

## Regrets


## Topics
* Repo for SPDX 3.0
* Identifiers cont'd
* Other Topics?

### SPDX 3.0 Repo
* Alexios:  proposing a different respository - known as SPDX 3.0 Model Spec.
    * How move over the SPDX spec issues & PRs?    Issues can be moved?  PRs ambiguous.
    * Reworking PRs will be needed.    Formats for each of pages.
    * Bob:  2.X --> 3.0   - compatibility breaking change.    Follow standards about which section and what it should cover.
    * Kate:  What about model repo, and then use the current SPDX spec with 2.2 for serializations.
    * Gary: Generated examples,   select favorite serialization format.    Generated.
    * Bob:  Tag:value is not debatable,  just a matter of generation.
    * David:  Flat and Heirarchical should be possible
    * Gary:  Can't generate by rules, just a lot of work.
    * Alexios:  3.0 model includes same information,  new license makes it cleaner to community specification.
    * Gary: Postpone serializations decision, and go with "SPDX 3.0 model"
    * Kate: Maybe put 3.0 *model* into its own new repository.    Gary & Alexios agree.
    * Note:  need lawyers to tell us how to bring over the 2.2 work, as appropriate into 3.0
    * Alexios notes that his parser doesn't parse comments at this point, for markdown template to markdown general.
    * DCO - new contributions,  separate,    markdown.     CONCERN:  need to make sure this all harmonizes.
    * Sebastian what about adding the following to the start of every file (with fictional license identifier for example):
        <!--- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Sebastian Crane <seabass-labrax@gmx.com> -->
        <!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: CSL-1.0 -->
        Then we are reuse compliant.
    * CONCENSUS:
        * SPDX-3.0-Model is a new repo, with clean licensing (https://github.com/spdx/governance/blob/main/1._Community_Specification_License-v1.md) and using DCO.   We will will revisit for serializations whether to extend the current 2.2 or build on 3.0.
        * For copyright,  not have individual authors, but rather have an author file that can be refered to and use "contributors to the SPDX specification".
        * We'll be using DCO for all contributions to the new repo.    Alexios to set up repo.
        * Revisit issues & PRs moving from 2.2 to 3.0 in 1 month's time.
        * Discussions will happen on email list - so we retain transparency.

### Identifier Discussion

* Lacking Sean & William - for discussion.
Single question to be decided: "Does an Element have an integrity check value corresponding to its IRI?"

### Pending merges
* Gary looking for JSON schema update - sign offed.   JSON-LD context - 573.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/573/files

###  Serialization
* Need to start meetings on this issue, but want to keep at this Sean wants to be engaged.
* Bob feels that when we finish the identifier it will be ready
* Key with the tooling to support, in different ecosystems, and libraries are key to moving it forward.

### Repo cleanup.
* Mark repo's as archive.
* SPDX-tools-js - is forked from someone's personal.   Talk to William about this.   AI:  Gary to ask student.
* Public forks chosen to be new public repo.   Make sure its SPDX one.
* Debian uses PERL to build,  which is why Sebastian is interested in PERL library creation.

### Issue 580 on specification repository (tabbed examples)

Sebastian - person who opened issue recommended an MkDocs plugin for tabs.
Sebastian shared example of what that would look like, but noted that the examples would have to be manually reorganised to work with the plugin.

Agreed to tag the issue as for 3.0, and not implement this for 2.2.

### SPDX Security Profile

* Thomas:  waiting for serializations,  starting in own repo
* AI Thomas: Please post current version of examples for others to start commenting on.

### Pending
* Can an element be considered immutable (ie. have an integrity value computed)?
* Can elements be duplicated into different documents.

* Gary - use cases,  make a copy and change a field, and update it.   Will break some use cases.   Waiting for Sean's .   Also, can it exisit in multiple serializations?    What does it solve?
* Bob - element is element, immutable element is a seperate?   Kate:  Think this will confuse.
* William - ease of transport,  multiple SPDX documents.   Technical hashing question.    Over the document.   Still have external map.  If overall document is valid,  then may not need for individual.
* Kate: Integrity of snippets - need the file reference.    Integrity of elements - need document.
* William:  Intoto attestations - backed away and went to canonical JSON so hashes were consistent.    Base 64 encoding all content and hashing this.   Avoid getting to element level hashing, if possible.
* Sebastian:  Steve Lasker presentation, and signing there is on the document.
* David: RDF principles Section 1.5: https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf11-concepts/ says:
"An IRI, once minted, should never change its intended referent. (See URI persistence [WEBARCH].)"

* QUESTIONS FOR SEAN:
    * Are elements mutable or immutable?  (preference for immutable from call)
    * Assuming they are immutable, can they be in multiple documents, and if so, how do we guarantee integrity
    * Independent of the model, can you have multiple serializations with copies of the elements?  (ie. copy of standard licenses - even though they are immutable).
