# SPDX Technical Weekly,  September 14, 2021

## Attendees
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Matt Rutkowski
* Peter Shin
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* SPDX now ISO standard
* Tagging repo - missing 2.2.1 tag,   adding in 2.2.2 content
* Identifiers &  default namespace

## Notes
* How ensure round tripping?  How represent an identifier?
  * Sean:  namespace on container example.  Default namespace.
  * Logical model vs. physical model - capture in logical to support serializations may be needed.
  * Sebastian:  IRI paywall concern - looking at RFC 3987 - references public standard, no longer as concerned with use of IRI.   Ok with using IRIs as extension to URIs.
  * Discussion recapping last meeting.
  * Sean is ok with having namespace, but wants to see it structured as namespace associated with multiple possible within a collection.    ie.  prefix:localid.
  * David concerned that the option 1 example  - creator creating a collection must be explicit about definitions of namespace.    If its a standalone element, it looks like option 2.
  * William:
    * Elements have full URI in model
    * Collections map a prefix to a namespace
    * An element in a collection, can have prefix applied.

* Gary notes that Option 1 example should be updated to reflect.

```"document": {
        "namespace": "spdx://bigcompanyorg/"
}
"elements":
[{
    "id": "systemd-v249-files-Makefile-v1",
    "specVersion": "3.0",
    "elementType": "file",
    "fileType": "source",
    "artifactUrl": "https://github.com/systemd/systemd/blob/v249/Makefile"
}]
```

Local part,  if creating content, producer has authority to create within the namespace.
ie. I should never be issuing as microsoft, unless Microsoft.

Gary:  Best practice is namespace that they can claim to control.

David: Option 3 does not permit roundtripping

3 Different issues:
    - prefixes - for roundrip
    - authority - prefix, convention, but should we make it more explicit
    - default prefix - for within a collection or document.

Only one level of namespaces for document, rather than nesting.
David agrees with only one level.

At the element independence level - it will always have to have full URI in element.   Single element is identified by IRI.   Its only when you have a collection, that you have a namespace is.

Can extract from id.   Compress/Expand with prefixes by extracting yourself.

William hacked a diagram on the model.
Kate & David not wanting to see prefix on every name.  XML
Gary & Sean aiming towards prefix - consistency.

Rose notifying William that they will be opening a PR to add oci-artifact as a pURL type later today

Discussion about authority - CreatedBy off element is the “authority”, the namespace is purely for grouping to prevent conflicts.    Should not be reading meaning into namespace.

Example:  multiple companies in an ISAC publishing to the same namespace.

Gary & David - Default namespace doesn't add that much overhead - many formats support and don't want to loose.

William:  ElementID been discussing for 4 to 5 weeks.   Do we have rough concensus this is direction to pursue.
- A namespace map that hangs off collection
- Prefixes permitted per id, associated with namespaces.
- ids permitted to shorten serialization

Sebastian concern that namespace should be in element.
Sean if not, all elements must use always have full IRI.
Roundtripping between formats is important to preserve - RDF, XML, TagValue, ...

## Parking lot
