# SPDX Tech Team Meeting - October 26, 2021
## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Maximillian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker

### Regrets
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Integrity discussion continued
* Next week's meeting
* Tools - SPDX SBOM generator, etc.



## Notes

### SPDX Tools
* Work on an agenda for for meeting in 2 or 3 weeks time.   Aim for maintainers for tools to be present.
* Outstanding requests on spdx-sbom-generator triggered discussions.
* Kate to reach out to Nirav about pending merge request.

### Next Week
* Nisha volunteered to lead the meeting next week.
* Potential topic to have:
  * Follow up from this week
  * OCI and identity,  and SBOMs traveling with content.   Steve & Nisha to flesh out topics in more detail

### Open Questions from Integrity discussion

* Conclusions from last meeting
  * No arguments for mutability - consensus immutable
  * Agree an element can be copied between physical representations, but we need a way to verify integrity / equality
  * An element with the same elementID identifies the same element in a model, but the physical representation/encoding may be different
* Henk: but this does not mean it is immutable,  suggest using another word.
* Gary: practially, it cannot be absolutely the change
* Henk: better to clarify the language that the elements are identical
* Gary: in CS "immutability" is vague anyway
* Steve: is this about whether a thing can be appended to or modified or the concept of "immutability"? An SBOM is created at one point and then we want to add to it. Or we are promoting the SBOM to a different environment and we want to add more information
* Alexios: remember that focus is an "element" (which could include SBOMs).  You don't change existing, but create a new one and point to the existing.
* Gary: the original element remains unchainged
* Alexios:  Element is a collection of properties,  in row of table.  If want to change something need to create a new line.   "id" is like database table key, which points to element.
* Sean: For a given id, the content doesn't change. But you could have another object with the same property values and have a different ID.
* David: RDF - when an ID is "minted" (stamped in iron) it means you have created an element with an ID and it can't change
* Henk is in agreement on the concept but not the "language" used to describe it.
* Gary: proposes to move language discussion to some other time.
* Kate: the elements identifier (IRI) is tied to an artifact, but someone wants to refer to the same artifact, with a different element, is this possible?   (there are some assumptions on how an IRI is formed that imply this can't happen)
* Gary: different words: if the artifact location changes does that mean the identifier changes?
* Sean: critical to allow different IDs pointing to the same element
* David: It is allowed to create a new element with identical attributes to an existing element, but with a different IRI
* Kate: this needs to be clearly documented in specification.
* Sebastian: specification should have a "common misconceptions" section
  * Gary: do serializations allow for the same element copied twice?   Important to clarify between logical model and serialization.
  * David: Logical model is a map from IRIs to elements, so it should not have multiple copies inside logical model.
  * Sean: Publish content at a point in time,  so mint an id with element and content for it.   If Gary published package that used file, he should be able to duplicate in his serialization, need to be able to validate against original published object.   Can give id, and contents from different place.
  * Consensus: logical model is a map from IRIs to elements (No duplication in logical model but OK in serialization)


Open questions from William:
* Adding an abstract Collection class as the superclass of Document and ContextualCollection simplified the model, are we comfortable keeping that?

* Adding a NamespaceMap property on Collection allows us to roundtrip prefix to namespace mappings across formats, any strong opinions on not having this?
* Do we want to enable a default namespace (e.g. no prefix)?
* If an Element is contained in a Collection can it omit properties (such as createdAt) and inherit them from the Collection?
* If a Collection is in another Collection can it inherit from higher levels?
  * This presumes an Element can only be in a single Collection (this makes sense since Collections represent containment not aggregation)
* Can an element be copied from one document (lowercase-d) to another?
    * Logical model: element "minted" only once, but others can reference it (copy no).
    * Serialization: yes

  * If Documents are Collections and Collections are containment this implies an element can't be copied.
    * Logical model: collections may overlap.   Composition, not containment. Element may be listed in multiple collections.
    * Serialization:

* Gary:  In 2.X,  creator information applies to entire document.  Know the source of "minter", where information has come from.   For 3.0 looking at how 2.X is using it in practices.
* Bob:  Constraining assumptions used in 2.X are being separated out.
* Gary:  Big benefit in having a creator object that you can tie several things to.
* Bob: Defining relationship of a set, and who defined that "set" .
* Gary:  What is the most efficient way to represent this in the model?
* David:  When minting a collection, can mint new elements that are part of the collection and can reference elements minted elsewhere.
* Sean:  Important to not assume that minting all the content at the same point in time.   Minting document/collection could be at all new minted elements, some new minted elements, none minted now (just references).
* Gary:  as am minting in new model, would like to see "creator information" tied to element,  from "document".  Will make it more efficient and less error prone.
* Sean: see challenges, so not right the right time to discuss further.
* Sebastian: are there identity models in other languages that can be applied?
   * What about use cases where we want to serialize a graph of elements from different documents into a single physical stream (e.g. wanting to put in a single JSON API response, or collapse into a single physical JSON file for ease of transfer into an air-gapped environment, etc.)?
   * David - is the bundle of things just a set of elements that don't have an ID to reference them collectively?
   * Sebastian: can there be a key without an associated element?
   * David: a bundle or document does not need an ID but can be a collection of IDs?
   * Sebastian: in that case, you don't need an ID
   * Gary: but we need some way of referencing it. Has to do with the chain of custody. One creator may have assembled all the sboms
   * Collection or Document? Sebastian: I thought we were not going to have nested prefixes?
   * Sebastian: afraid we are making this more complex than we need. Perhaps examples would be useful.
   * David: when you mint a collection you are creating a namespace map. That collection can reference other elements that are not part of it.
   * Round tripping: creating a short identifier to reference a long IRI, and converting them back again.
* Depending on the answers above, what is the impact to ExternalMap?
  * One thing ExternalMap was being used for was that in SPDX 2.2 ExternalDocumentRef the integrity was over the document, not individual elements, ExternalMap allowed us to store the integrity information for a referenced document in the referencing document without needing to compute per element integrity.
