
# SPDX Tech Meeting,  March 16, 2021

## Attendees
* Gary O'Neal
* Sean Barnum
* John Horan
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Shin
* William Bartholomew
* Kay Williams
* Kate Stewart
* Steve Winslow
* William Cox
* Bob Martin
* Brian Fox
* Karsten Klein
* Maximilian Huber
* Nishad Thalhath
* Steve Lasker

## Agenda
* GSoC (Gary)
* Work on model updates  (William)
* Generating SBOMs at Container Build (Nisha) - if time permits

## Notes

### GSoC for 2021
* Accepted for GSoC for 2021
* Santiago volunteered to help with Python libraries
* Project ideas:  Mail to Gary or add to: https://wiki.spdx.org/view/GSOC/GSOC_ProjectIdeas

### Templates
* Where to put the markdown template?
* Google doc with changes posted - how can we get to github.
* Sean has some tweaks to the template to discuss.   Wants to post on github?
* William to take a pass at reordering the 3.0 branch, and then add the template.
* Gary - should we create a template repository?   Kate & Sean agree.
* Template should be taken to be a "guide for new users", what Gary has was just delta.
* Current template link: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lGLlfgVZcXL5hArmyciOR967SXTbGVbXNfVGOMrEEm0/edit?usp=sharing

* Open Question:  One file per profile, or one file per class?    Like Granularity, and asserting property on shape.
  * Proposal -  directory per profile, one file per class, one file for property
  * Leverage #include to bring in properties.
  * Shape for a different class may be different for a property (ie. required in one, not in another)
  * For each profile - need to consider model namesapce as well.   TBD.

### Model
* Agreement on CreatedBy for the who - aligns with other changes.

* Desire to move from Created to CreationBy/CreatedTime for property for name in Element Class.
   * SPDX hasn't seen issue with Created, so reluctant to make gratuitous changes.
   * What is the critera for deciding "has confusion been seen in published relevant community standards"
   * If there is a term that is already defined, and published, we should adopt that standard.
   * Is there formal definition for element in SPDX specification.

* External References & Annotations
  * Should they be elements?   Gary (mild concern) - adds complexity.   Now more additional fields that need to consider.
  * Gary: Will this make it more complex?    More complex use cases.
  * William:  Consistency will make it simpler - showing simplest way of doing things will help.
  * In physical serialization, rather than model.  Might be able to make be able to make simpler via inlining, because not referencing from multiple places.
  * Gary: concern over the serialization format impacts.
  * William: Express annotations over multiple elements has value.
  * Gary:  External reference is just a property, more light weight.
  * William: Profiles that extend external reference types?
  * Sean: There are mechanisms for avoiding the cyclical serializations.   Concern over property v.s.
  * Nisha: Concerns on use cases between External Reference vs. External Map.
  * William - another SBOM is External Map,   External Reference - SWID, CPE, SWHID, PURLs, etc.
  * Discussion of External Map - example of Office contains Excel, Word, etc.   AI: Sean to send Nisha a copy of the document that he worked on.

* Concensus - Namespace belongs in Document

* Moved properties from Document to Element - want to talk through this next week.

### Containers at build time
* Lot of things don't know.
  * Digest of the file system.   Package Checksum.    Files analyzed is false.
  * Are not manifesting as individual packages.   Spinning up container image.
  * Consider extending DownloadLocation?
  * https://stevelasker.blog/2020/02/17/registry-namespace-repo-names/
  * Public vs. Private - may try to get the same thing in containers.
  * Try to treat like PURL?   Possible look up.
  * Lot of containery things - KO is like PURL.    Package type & transport & path.   https://github.com/google/ko
  The urls look like this: https://github.com/google/ko#yaml-changes

## Future meeting
* FSFE - having profile that relates to the orginator of code,  pull in legal.   FSFE - structuring of metadata,  manual use of SPDX standard.    Invite - Steve, ReUSE folks
* Discussion of properties that have moved from Document to Element.
* External Reference ... Class vs. Property.
* Sean to propose definition as External Map and External Reference.   Need to get everyone
