# SPDX Technical Team Minutes, February 23, 2021

## Attendees:
* Kate Stewart
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* Gary ONeall
* William Bartholomew
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Shin
* William Cox
* Karsten Klein
* Rose Judge
* Henk Birkholz
* Nishad Thalhath
* Kay Williams
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Jorge Rodriguez-Moreno
* David Kemp
* John Horan
* Jim Hutchison
* jefschut
* Adrian Diglio

## Agenda:
* GSoC
* Update on Schema (from Sean/Gary meeting)
* Model (William)
* Template update from last meeting, any blockers?

## Notes
* GSoC
   * Ok to add more projects to page, as long as mentors.

* Schema
   * Addition of Shacl to Owl  (Shapes constrain language) to describe relationship and ontology of different terms being used.
   * OWL not intended to describe requirements,   But can describe constraints with SHACL.
   * Sean has tools to move from OWL to SHACL, and offered to help with this.
   * Template with OWL will need to have SHACL elements in it.
   * Unrelated to markdown template - will still need to translate from markdown to OWL+SHACL.   We may would want to put SHACL expressions rather than Regex.   Think of Shape as content.   Its what we were talking about as formats.   Add to markdown as text.
   * See ontology subfolder in SPDX (which generates schema framework)
   * Net: gives us more flexibility on level of details we can describe constraints and patterns.
   * Request for Sean to go through this in next call.

* Processes
   * Concern is precision and translation of formal schema.
   * Community is comfortable with markdown so i needs to be our input
   * Template with markdown should be able to handle this.
   * Bob raised Sean's concern integrity of model is hard to keep track of.
   * Agreed to closely monitor how the Markdown --> model goes.
      * If issues,  then revisit.   Problem is bounded.
      * Key is to get parallelism going again.
   * Henk - is what in the repo what we're doing?   No,  its the 2.2 version, and we'll be evolving to 3.0.
   * Bob - can we generate the markdown from the existing model?   Gary, not sure that will be possible.
   * Template can be found at: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MlejNFLbgea8iqCkCf9D_nAWH5VS2OiF3PHl8DhWvSU/edit?pli=1

* Model:
   * Annotations have been added to model to align with what is in SPDX today.
   * Discussion about root element,  concern raised we would want to be able represent all use cases that DESCRIBES is able to represent.
   * How does it relate to external reference with root element?
   * Profile - where are they defined.   Not in this, but is base profile.
   * What applies to document, applies to all the elements in the document.
   * Use case:  Describe model on what is beiing to exchanged beween two entities.
   * Use case: What is used within a system.   Implication on object model.
   * Nisha - discussion about operating system, and implications of assessments.  Looking at way to point to different profiles, and point to separate partitions.
   * Extension - recommended by Sean, concern expressed how can be used beyond XML.  Standardized way of expressing JSON beyond binary may handle.   But need to concern to move to other formats - YAML.   No real validation way to handle this, and have to hard code this.   JSON schema --> YAML?   Need to have canonical way to transform back.
   * Completeness in relationships?   Only dependencies and others.   Whether believe or know if set is
   * Relationships:  Concern over many to many showing up.   Resolved back to 1:many.
   * Relationships: Completeness is to be used on a set as an optional field.   Need to work through use cases.
   * Serialization with elements, inconsistencies between graph and array of elements.   YAML, Tag:Value - would need elements property on document which is contain.   Reference to Kubernetes Metadata section,  elements going in details section.  Part of defining the serialization process, rather than the logical model.
   * Data transfer models discussion
   * Nisha - same metadata is being modeled in tools;  module a whole Azure build service would be document.   There can be individual elements that can be reused in different documents.
   * Extracting from database into document -- don't need in internal database.

* Template:
   * concern over use of stable vs unstable, and process around publishing.
   * deprecated makes sense to carry, from historical.
   * Subproperty of - need to see examples
   * William to apply template to his example in 3.0

Agenda:
   * Sean to show how SHACL can augment OWL to illustrate
   * Model:  Revisit Document to inherit from Package,   extension
   * Template - are we good?
