# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, May 4, 2021


## Agenda
* Vulnerability Profile Update (Thomas)
* Open Model Issue - Element vs. Document (William)

## Attendees

* Alexios  Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Kartsen Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Kay Williams
* Nisha Kumar
* Philippe Ombredanne
* Sean Barnum
* Steve Winslow
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew


## Notes

### Vulnerability Profile
* New mailing list spdx-defects - selfsubcribe at: https://lists.spdx.org/g/spdx-defects
*Thomas pushed a draft version of the Vulnerability Profile to GitHub see https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/510
  * Please look and review compared to public other efforts.
  * Direct links:
      * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/22ac126595755f57d6f82ef6a73f3636328df0d5/examples/SPDXVunerabilityJSONExample-v3.0.spdx.json
      * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/22ac126595755f57d6f82ef6a73f3636328df0d5/chapters/profile-vulnerabilities.md
      * Example is for just the "jist" of it.
      * Consider extending to show example of files - based on IDs,  not in example, but should be same as package.
      * Nisha: Can someone give an example of what is an “artifact” that *isn’t* a “package”?
         * Steve Artifact is eithe ra package, file or snippet in SPDX 2.2 language.
  * Defects,  convey info, and shouldn't be a complete database.   Look up additional info in database.
    * Bob: should be nothing structurally wrong with model implementing it as a database.
    * Sean: part is exchange and how it all halls to gether.
    * Kate: consider CVRF & NTIA VEX profiles.

* Nisha: Profile in general?
   * Linkage doesn't have mandatory, its more about how to construct.
   * Does profile need a subset of fields?   Not necessarily.
   * Key is intended purpose and scoping, that is about how to use and provide guidance.

* Completeness field.
  * side effect,  many to many ---  now one to many not needed.    Only need to describe completeness of "to" end.

* Template needs to be aligned.
   * Alexios & Steve agrees, stop blocking
   * Getting conversation.
   * William - how its going to interact with model is factor.  Not massive amount of content dealing with.   Starting pont and do that.   Then do a pass after tooling.
   * Start with Steve's template from legal.
   * Kate & Gary on point for template.   Alexios willing to help on this as well.
   * Thomas would like to understand how to figure out how to model submodels in template.   Under relationships, vulnerabilities, profile, etc.

###  Model vs Element for propertiess

* Resolution allow element can be disconnected from document.
* Is it a requirement that an IDstring have a namespace?
   * Kate has concern that we don't have uniqueness in IDstring without document namespace
   * Discussion was that serialization format related.
   * If an element's id does not have a namespace, use the document's namespace.
   * Document-Ref - specific to serializaiton focus.
   * idstring - GUID is only presumptively unique.    Namespace was assumption before.

* Sean argues that id needs to be globally unique.
   * NIsha this is linkage profile.

* William:
    * id's use document namespace in simple fashion,  defaults to local?
    * if never referencing outside the document.
    * we should be able to treat this as what we have this the same as SDPX 2.2

* Nisha:
    * if this is a self contained document, don't need namespace for local references within.   Selfcontained for one exchange.
    * For distributed examples: https://github.com/SantiagoTorres/spdx-linking-mockups/tree/master/use-cases
    * They don’t have corresponding SPDX 3.0 document examples, but it would be helpful if someone who can grok this add an example
    We did some hacking here: https://hackmd.io/Xbvo1jjKSwqGLnGeL3bWZg

* Sean
    * idstring - is globally unique within the document namespace, but it can also be others.
    * wants to be able to reference to elements outside document.

* William: Saying that document is a more constrained version of element.
* Sean:  Shapes section is a table in Document 1..1,  where as in element its 0..*   templates that create content.

* Serialized to element level,  document as a whole, is licensing.
* Model needs to hang together between serializations.

* William:   Logical vs. Physical model (serialization)
   * Document is a specialization of element, so can be more restrictive in logical model.
   * Serialization can change how it is physically represented.   It is mandatory on elements.   Specify at document level.  Will inherit down.   Ensure that the constraints in logical model have been satisfied.
*David Kemp:   Every element has to be associated with a document in a serialization, but when deserialized, can be made to be portable.   Can be self contained again.

* Karsten:  wondering if this is the correcct modeling?   Is it so signficant that document is an element.
   * William - Lets describe integrity method.    Element is what everything hangs off of.   Get it consistently.   Here's a document of packages.
   * Sean:  Here's a document of 3 documents becomes possible.
   * William:  This enables more advanced cases,  but doesn't force it.

* Steve: id string would be tuple of namespace and id within the namespace.
   * William:  logically way to think of it,  namespace and id.  ExternalMap will have way of refering to element outside of the document.
   * William:  Imaging that github is building up a graph of all the things that it is connecting.   Generating a graph, and then generate and send it to you.
   * Sean:  what the namespaces is can vary,  but subdivisions may be possible, toplevel side.   Registry of software producers identies could be handled.   Full registry of content can be injested into graph.    There is no set rule for namespaces; as long as whatever namespace is asserted;
   * William:  Will create a serialized JSON example of this tos se what helps.

* Karsten:  why not make element a document?
   * William: will force the constraint.  What would you take away from element for document?
   * Document is the global definition, and element level.    When serialize, document is at root, can describe data license on document phyiscally.   Molecule vs. atom analogy.
   * Gary: logical model alternative - if we relax requirement that element can stand on own,  all elements can be in one and only one document.  Then data license, etc. then reference back to document that defined it.   Would be closer to type serialization model.   Then elements can't stand on own.

* Need someone to illustrate that SPDX 2.2 serialization will not be impacted by document/element changes.
* AI:  William will show github element example.


Closure on topics on model 1 pager
* Sean is ok with one to many instead of many to many - so closing this out.
* Annotation is an element, but not extneral reference.
* Agreement that originator can be many.


### Future
* Template closure - when Gary/Alexios/Kate/Sean can all attend
* See if Steve can close on Data license issue.
