# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2022-12-06
## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks (REA)
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Schutt
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* Kevin Cressman
* Maximillian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew


## Agenda
* Target dates proposal for SPDX 3.0
* Questions/clarifications on current SPDXv3 model -- Alexios
* Glossary https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/45
* Nisha Build Profile Question
* Continue discussion on identity (if Sean's available)

## Minutes
* Target dates proposal
  * Kate would like to convey target dates for SPDX 3.0
  * Target is first month of the year 2023
  * Nisha: add build profile to the list of profiles ready for review on Jan 2023
* Clarification on 3.0 model
  * Q1: name of attributes. Eg: CreationInfo vs imports and namespaces. Shouldn't these be only one?
  * Gary: propose singular. 1. This is our current RDF onotology has it as singular. 2. In XML singular makes sense vs in JSON plural makes sense.
  * William: We want both to support serialization
  * Alexios: so singular for onotology & model documentation but for JSON (and any other serialization) if you have more than one value then it is plural. So is the field "namespaces"? Gary: yes.
  * Q2: Different values of Enumerations were called "vocabularies". Do we want to keep relationships with a Capital R? Do we want to keep classes starting with small case.
  * William: tend to think relationships should be called RelationshipTypeVocab and classes use small letters.
  * Properties start with lower case letter Eg: relationshipType
  * Decision: enumerations start with a capital letter without "Vocab". Eg: RelationshipType.
  * Q3: values of the enumerations: should it be "describes".
  * Gary: use "relationshipType_<relationship>" Eg: "relationshipType_CopyOf"  (at least for RDF)
  * Decision: We will "generate" the RDF Ontology format - so we can defer some of the specific naming for the RDF specifics until Sean can join
  * Alexios: Using namespaces: spdx.org/rdf/v3/relationshipType/copyOf
  * Hyphens may not work in all programming languages
  * For documentation, camelCase - we'll translate to all upper case with underscores for the JSON - exception when we need to separate numbers (e.g. sha3_XXX).
  * Q4: Classes start with Capital letter, does BOM and SBOM also follow this?
  * Decision is TitleCase (e.g. Bom, Sbom)
  * Alexios: enumerations are not strings. We use explicit values.
  * David: in some serializations enumerated values would be strings and in others they would be numeric. William: it's an implementation detail left to the serialization.
  * David: it could be per serialization or across serializations, it can apply to property names or enumerations.
  * Dick: Should consider constraining enumerated set items to UTF-8. For serialization, there is no harm in including values as UTF-8.
  * William: feel like this should be up to the serializer. Detail may not be necessary in the spec.
  * David: agree that individual serialization can do what it wants. Can the model repo include both logical model and information to support serialization?
  * William: we could have recommendations for each serialization. David: but it's not in the model repo. Can be one source of truth.
  * Henk: we could extend the list with new names. Would like to have an integer index for each of the enumerations. This prevents serializers from inventing their own numbering system.
  * William: if we don't put numbers in the logical model, that frees up the serializers from encoding a strict number. Plus this group maintains the serializers.
  * Henk: If I was making a CBOR model, I will have to create the numbers. Then will have to register with IANA.
  * Gary: we do want to document anything that goes into IANA. Proposal: postpone this discussion to "how". We have consensus that we should document it.
  * Decision: not sure where in the spdx-3.0-model repo we document, but it will be in this repo.
  * Jeff: Is canonicalization needed to keep the order of properties consistent across serializations? William: that conflicts with ordering properties alphabetically.
  * David: The long-term plan is to define a "serialization model" that could be used by specific SPDX-defined serializations that choose to use it. The content of the serialization model could be defined in the existing spdx-3-model markdown files or in a separate section of the repo.  Decision deferred until we get to serialization.
* Build profile discussion - Nisha
  * Last week we had a discussion on Identity / Actor - will this be in the core model?
  * If so, would like reccomendations on how we would represent Github accounts?
  * Github vs Github Actions vs Github Account - how do we describe these as identities
  * William - All the above are actors.  Actors can be linked to an identitiy.  If you want to force something to be a person or organization, you would have to provide an identity.  In general, you will want an Actor and and Actor woud then be linked to an Identitity
  * David - question on cardinality - should we have one Actor linked to multiple identities?  e.g. creator
    * William - could have multiple Actors working on the same action
  * Nisha - Can we have one Actor linked to multiple Identities?
    * William - Yes - example, different identities over time, another example different roles
  * Jeff - should discuss with Sean present - overlap with previous discussion - reference to Agent and Provo standard (see minutes from last week)
  * David - proposal, collaboration between individuals would result in a single Actor which links to 3 individuals
  * William - Actors are what are observed taking some action, they are not long term things with SPDX IDs - if you need that, you should link the Actor to an identity


* Glossary https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/45
  * Please review and leave comments / improvements
