# SPDX Tech Team Meeting  2022-11-08

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Brandon Lum
* Bryan Cowan
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary  O'Neall
* Hutch
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Joshua Watt
* Maximilllian Huber
* NIsha Kumar
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* William Cox


## Agenda
* Updates
* F2F meeting with virtual in Tahoe
* Review of (tentative) decisions from last Friday's call
  * Core profile will have a union of all properties used in profiles for the 3.0 release as opposed to a layered approach - profiles can add further constraints on properties and we can have different namespaces for different profiles.  Profiles can also create new classes not in core.  We will revisit this decision prior to 3.0 release to make sure we didn't create too much additional complexity.
  * ExternalIdentifier and ExternalReference will be concrete classes which can also be subclassed
  * Core profile will have the union of all enum values from profiles - we'll check later if this creates a mess and revisit once all enum values are collected
  * If trying to use a relationship type (or any enum), use other as the relationship type, and use extension to provide detail of relationship type. From a spec perspective it's just other. From a tool implementer perspective, if you want to be forward compatible, you can ignore relationship types don't understand.
  * Adding to OTHER to hash algorithm enumeration & Comment to Integrity method
  * Should Actor have its own identifier property? - William will clean the model diagram for a discuss today
  * Relationships will be 1 to many type relationships
  * Keep the current 2.3 cardinality of relationship completeness - optional with a default "Known"
  * Allow optional fields with defined default values
  * New items added:
    * Do we deprecate external reference types that are now covered by PURL?
    * Moving comment from element to CreationInfo
* Other topics?
  * Website rebuilt
  * Discussion on RDF OWL website https://spdx.org/rdf/terms/

## Minutes

* Discussion of the GitHub Actions CI issues with SPDX 2.3: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/803. Maximilian volunteers to investigate this further.
* Alexios's update about the FOSDEM conference (in-person in Belgium): SBOM 'devroom' approved (half of Sunday dedicated to the topic). Deadline for presentation proposal approximately end of November, and Alexios will post further details to the SPDX Tech mailing list.
* Linux Foundation Members' Summit will be going ahead this week in Lake Tahoe. SPDX community members are invited to join virtually or in-person. Gary will arrange invitation emails with Kate.
* Infrastructure for the rebuilt website as a topic for future meeting. Sean volunteers to help with RDF ontology integration to ensure ontologies are automatically published.
* Security-focused Outreach Team meeting suggested by Jeff Schutt. Sebastian will coordinate this and post information to the Tech and Outreach mailing lists.

### Review of tentative decisions from Friday's meeting

#### Profiles

* Suggestion from Friday's call was that 'Core' is a union of all properties (of their classes) in SPDX. Profiles:
* can restrict the cardinality of properties that exist in Core classes
* cannot relax restrictions of core
* cannot add new properties to classes defined in core
* can add new classes (and their properties).
* Properties of classes in core: union of everything? Sean has concerns that it will make life difficult but no blocking objections from those present.
* Mixed opinions among those present regarding classes (Element types) and where they reside.
* Decision taken by chair to postpone further discussion on classes (defined by working groups), namespaces, etc.

#### External Identifiers and External References
* Suggestion from Friday's call was that External References and External Identifiers are 'classes', but not Element types, and can be subclassed.
* On the diagram, "data types" are classes (not Element-derived). This means that External Reference and External Identifier classes should not be italicized in the diagram.
* Conclusion is that there are no objections to the suggestion from those present. Follow-up action is to clarify meaning of parts of the model diagram.

#### Enumeration types in Core
* Suggestion from Friday's call is that Enumeration properties defined in Core cannot be extended by a profile.
However, profiles can create their own lists of enum values for use in properties they define.

* Conclusion is that there are no objections to the suggestion from those present.

### Discussion on Glossary and terms

* General feeling that we can not make progress without understanding and defining the following terms:
  * Profile - Sean in Chat,
  * Namespace - Sean in Chat,  - use that as a starting point
  * Class (and maybe subclass / extend)
  * Property
  * Data type - UML defines DataTypes, one word, as "types whose instances are distinguished only by their value", i.e., not by a primary key / unique identifier. But a UUID wrapped in a struct / datatype constructor is.
  * Shape
  * Constraint - a statement in a profile, restricting the set of allowed values, e.g. for properties in the model. Examples could be the requirement of a different hash algorithm to be present.
  * Validate
  * Union - Gary
  * Canonicalization - a process that takes abstract model data and generates a deterministic (string) representation (Serialization), normalizing all choices like ordering, formatting and representation choices (like direction of relations and inlining). See also https://spdx.github.io/canonical-serialisation/
   * Serialization: representation of SPDX data as a byte stream

Sean in chat:
* Model consists of namespaces defining classes and properties
** Core namespace defines cross-cutting classes and properties relevant across application contexts (e.g., license, security, etc.)

* Application context namespaces define classes and properties relevant specifically to a given application context

* Working groups focus on the needs of specific application contexts (e.g., license, security, etc.)
** Working groups potentially specify application context-centric namespaces containing new classes and properties relevant specifically to the application context
** Working groups specify a profile for how to use the model to support the targeted application context

* Profiles
** Specify specific namespaces, classes and properties relevant for supporting the targeted application context
** Specify specific validation shapes of constraints for model-based instance content to be used in support of use of the targeted application context
