SPDX Tech - Modeling Workshop - 11 March 2022

## Attendees
* Bob Martin
* Brandon Lum
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schutt
* Joe B
* Joshua Marpet
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Nisha Kumar
* Richard Brooks
* Rose Judge
* Saul Wold
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* 3.0 Model Open Issue Resolution

## Notes

### Identity Proposal
* 30 minute discussion, and resolution
* See diagram from Sean
* Reminder - elements are immutable.

* Do we see value in the split between the identity and identifiers.  ie. person and email to address to email?
  * Reality that connection points change over time.   People have different roles over different times.  Immutability may make it challenging to see picture.   Splitting helps with temporal aspects.
  * Backwards compatible to extend.   Flexibility to extend beyond "created-by"  - other places things will come into play.   Avoids refactor in future.
  * Split out are these artifacts in separate discussion.
  * Consider case of  "nisha" affiliated with "company" using "consign" to sign artifact "x".
  * Identity can be a user name, domain name, github account,...  but tool would be something different.
  * Concern that consistent identity doesn't work for all people.
  * William points that agent lets us refer to email, without refering to identity.   Example - don't know if a person is an organization in SPDX 2.0,  this lets us handle it more gracefully.
    * Sean: breaking out lets us do this, and get consistency
  * Dick: Curious how tool relates to identifier.    Tool would not use agent.
    * Sean A given tool would have an identifier,  can assoicate with who used it, point in time, vs. creators, ....  Note we're not associating with who used it.   Identiy is NOT an identifier.   Any identity may one or more identifiers.   Any tool could have mulitple identifiers.  This should proclude.    Joshuah:  Identifier is used for identity in specific context.
  * Saul: Is there any thought about pubkey fingerprint of somekind (which I know can also change)?
  * Identity has agency to make decisions.   Identifiers are way to refer to identity.
    * Sean generally agrees - identities may also be acted on, so may not have agency.
  * Nisha:  why is this concept being introduced?    William:  we use it as more than created, there are also annotations, and it will be used for other roles in future.    Identity isn't new in this discussion.
  * Karsten - liking the agent approach, but concerned about subclassing and inheritance,  see them as attributes.
  * David - see: https://gist.github.com/davaya/9219977ae85eaa2344bb137f0ff60e73 for.   Identity is "meat" of Sean Barnum,  he can have many identifiers.   Person entities and non-person entities exist.
  * William:  * Identity based class confusion - it just catches things that could be used.    Agent was the Identity Ref.
  * David - Name and Email address and SSN and Account and x, y, z are many identifiers that can apply to a single identity.   Person and Organization and Tool/Service are person-entities or non-person entities that can have credentials and be Agents.
  * William - In the currently SPDX 3.x model you would store identities in an external reference attached to the identity (person, organization, or tool).
  * Sean - can be more explicit about the temporal aspects between identities and identifiers over time.
  * Nisha - what is the purpose of separating the person vs. the mechanisms?
  * Bob - for system BOMs and physical BOMS - identifiers
  * Sean - We are not trying to be an identity management
  * Nisha - Organization names change too. I used to work for a company that changed its name and can no longer be tracked to the original org name.
  * David - Multiple identifiers must be linkable to a single identity (perhaps with time periods or perhaps just cumulative over all time).  In order to do that, "identifier" and "identity" must be different things.
    * Nisha - that works for me,   element <- identity <- identifier,  identity can contain a list of identifiers
  * William - not trying to model real world people in accounts,  other systems.
  * Sean - this would benefit from a few examples - and clear definitions.    Not sure that simplification will
  * Karsten - this model for integrity,  also talking about exchange format.  Connect to local database,  need to do comprehensive content.  Just including explicitly modeled information.
  * Sean - Disconnects are likely due to disagreeing about the terms in different ways - need definitions.
  * Jeff -   sees it as Element <- Agent <- Identifier (Person, Org, Acct, EmailAddr, Tool)   ?
  * David - Agree with emailAddress "class" if "class" means "type definition".  Don't agree that emailAddress is a subclass of Element.
  * Kate - Summary:  see value in doing the split, but it's not clear how to model this.
  * William:  What they inherit from and how they relate need more discusion, and when they need what.

Pending:   Modeling this
   * Are Identifiers artifacts or something else?
   * Is there value in splitting agent out in some way?



### Creation Info - break out or not
* see - Punchlist - element issue #9
* Is creation an event/thing,  so you may reference a set of elements as assoicated with a creation event?  ie. stamping a set.   Published, Minted, Created, Signed.
* Initial reactions
* Gary - for a majority of use cases, there is one creation event, and want to reference all the artifacts that are created in that event.  Separating it out makes most sense.
* Sean - are we creating an element?    William:  not an element, cause that would be recursive.    Identity that can be reused withing a single document without it being an element.
* Sean - Non-element class, persist across graph.   Open question on what is the purpose?   Multiple referencing the single class from serialization perspective.
* Gary - don't think we have a requirement that they are referenceable outside the document.   Can't address directly the creation information outside the document.  Use cases driving this?   What are all the elements created during this creation event.   Query object that have same associations.   Creation is an event and it evolves multiple artifacts.    David Kemp - Agree with Gary,  should be one structure with 2 subfields.   Want to see give me all the elements part of the creation event.   Unit of transfer
* William: if we do break it out to a class that is reusable,  it is taken with elements as a unit, even if they are done independently.
* Sean:  agree with William.  An element must at an atomic level, have its own data.  This can be done with separate non-element class.   At domain object it is effective.   In querying it is expensive, but not see simplicity for breaking out.   Integral.   Could it be done where non-element class?   And we have situation, and multiple embedded object reference this.   Concern is across documents and a graph, deleting,  sub non-element class.  Shared non-elemnt class, shared across many.
* David: Whatever the RDF term for "GPS coordinate" {latitude=123, longitude=456} is applies to "created" {who=x, when=y}.  That's normally called "measurement" or "observation" - a value that stands by itself, not referenceable by an ID other than it's value.  I think "created" = data type.
* Discussion on comparison between creation between integrity method
* Gary:  Deletion use case, it is a problem today, and if focused on exchanged.   Can't think of deletion use cases, they aren't exchange use cases.
* Sean:  more than just exchange use cases.
* William:  focus on use cases (beyond exchange, database), but we're not modeling the supply chain ecosystem of every piece of data we want to store.   Working out where the line is, is a valid issue.   ** come back to this at some point.
* Regardeless if a property on element or separate entity - does anyone have significant concerns about shareable?
* Sean:  possible unnecessary complexity,  would like to see pro's and con's.
* William:  substructure,  assign address on one, and reuse it on all of the others, allows in YAML gain.
* Sean: This can be done in a serialization independent of module.   Serialization rules and de-serialization could handle this.    If we did breaking into separate class it is more complex to query.   Wanting to see the graph be the native model,  and querying is a more complex.
* David: William clarified data type and entity.   Hash - algorithm & value.   Defining it as a single thing, and it doesn't really increase complexity of querying for sincle thing.
* William:  Propoerty name on element would be created,  but its data type would be similar to what we want for reporded vulnerability, etc.
* Gary: we should capture in model what is most natural form.    Having it as a separate class, helps with serialization, esp. with tag:value.
* Sean:  Hash - would be 2 through full passes as well.   Finding subclass and then doing.    Not seeing value for doing,  serialization level, not at model level.   Across exchange graph.
* Not hearing strong objections to break it out to a class and how it will be used.
* Can this be done entirely as a serialization rule?   It's more what is natural to model and use cases driving it.
* We have a class called today "creation info"   we're just moving the property from document level, than to the element level.   Which is much easier to make the compatility.
* Nisha - there are many places that would affect seriolization.   Identify these places and work on it as way of moving forward.
* David - audience of logical model is important, but coordinate example - location vs. longatude & latitude.
* Gary - it's really same implementation approach as checksum.
* William - subtle difference for serializations.    Gary - not proposing making we give it an identity across serialization boundaries.   Only local to the serialization unit itself.    Creation Information would be like integrity method.
* Sean - its a different interpretation of the model, and from serialization doesn't make a difference
* William - it does make a difference in implementation.
* Sean - what is the translation between the two,   deletinon existing in the model.   Non element classes, would be unique to the element they are part of.
* Gary - checksums instance from every reference isn't there.
* Element with particular id and creation info,  be able to have the linkage has value.
   * Linking in the class?  ok
   * Can instances be shared across multiple elements?  concern point
   * Deletion elements ... complexity making it greater.
* William: At a physical level - examples of constants are optimized at a physical level.   Optimize into a single thing. and what grouping the two properties together does, is to only merge if two properties are the same.
* Gary:  Deletion concerns, put the property on serialization.   Creation information separate for each element.
* Nisha:  Possible example of where one would hash an element vs what it sits in.
* Sean: Verified using is on the artifact, limited to context.   JSON serialization, YAML, etc.   normalized form.   Needs canonicalized form.
* William:  Not a blocker, going to element level integrity, independent of unit of transfer.  Working group is going to pursue.
* Sean:  examples would help here.   Want to see it both ways for Creator Information.   Situational context,  getting value.   Want to do this in concrete fashion.
* Gary - Is deletion use case the only issue?
* Sean - Its the fact a sub object is referenced by another,  its the sharedness.   Atomicity and ecapsulation would be need it.
* Gary - simpler to have tied properties as a separate class.   Deletion use case - one way to solve this is deserialize into internal implementation.   Multiple copies to make deletion fine.   Key being model makes it easy for same.
* David - At the logical level id is an IRI. At the physical level an element ID is a namespace/prefix + local.
* A single namespace (unit of transfer) must have the identical creation info as all of the elements *created/minted* as part of that unit of transfer.  All of the elements in a Unit of Transfer with different creation info MUST have been created in a different namespace.
* Sebastian - David, I don't think that accounts for the use case of including verbatim elements from a third party. They have different ID prefixes and different creation info, but they are still included in a single unit of transfer.
* Why not put all the external reference as properties as elements?  Naturally grouping together.   We don't want an element with a million properties.
* Sean - I do not believe “creation info” and external references are the same question in breaking them out. External references that MAY be on an element and represent something as a whole. Creation info MUST be on every element and really are direct characteristics of the Element.
* Desire for examples -  JSON-LD,   or TURTLE,  noative to model.
* Different points in time, and see what is being expressed.
* Nisha:  If there is 1 element in one serialization, this isn't such a big deal. If there are 100 or so elements in one serialization, then I can see this getting to be really redundant
* David UML has separate types for data-types vs. classes.   Multielement structs being used all elements.  ie. 3rd coordinate example.  Going through class decomposition.   Handling complex numbers, 4d pixels, in RDF is same way to handle creations.
* Does deletion problem occur with external references?    Not the case for multiple reference.   Annotation is it's own for this release.
* If we went with proposal for creation information as drawn,  would it create any new problems?   Wouldn't be able to have multiple elments reference same object.
* Leave creation information as class as specified.  Proposal as drawn here
* Example of pixel discussed as illustration.
* "Can we use pointers/references in serializations without calling them out in the model?"
* Sean: Deserialization will blow into instance, each has its own duplicate.  Compression goes away.   Remove blocking arguement completely.    Referencing default.
* Gary: Agree basically,  not trusting that creation information is the same across serializations.   Need to figure out best way to describe constraint.
* David: The "logical model" has one direction: - logical instance to physical instance.  It also has the other direction - logical instance to variables in a programming language that forms an implementation.
* Sean:  Inheriting on collection would be similar, but maintain brevity.   Uses it in UCO.
* Brandon: i have questions about signatures as well but think its a separate subject, which should be able to be doable with the current model?
* David: At the logical level each element has its own copy of a pixel instance or creatiion_info instance.  Within an implementation they might be re-compressed, but not maintaining that "conceptually individual" behavior is an invalid implementation.
* Gary:  We need to define non element classes sharing between documents.

### 3.0 example walkthrough

Sebastian shared a draft 3.0 serialization and we discussed the fields missing, etc.

### Document Namespace, External Map

Didn't get a chance to get to this,  setting up for next meeting.
Other comments:   probably need more of these.   Session not to exceed 3 hours - they're intense!
