SPDX Tech - April 5, 2022

## Attendees

* 文翰 冯 (Feng Wenhan)
* Bob Martin
* Brandon Lum
* Catalin Stratu
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Hardik Patel
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* 3.0 Model - Identity vs Identifiers
* 3.0 Build Profile/ Properties for build data
  * Meetings?
* 2.3 - PackagePurpose https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/622#issuecomment-1086088532
* Other topics?

## Notes

### Identity use-cases and requirements for 3.0

* William shared a partial version of the 3.0 Model diagram with parts pertaining only to identity
* Sean had suggested a while ago splitting 'things visible from an identity' (eg email address) from 'identity' (the natural persons or organisations behind them). Sean suggested an Agent class which could make decisions (including Person and Organisation).
* William: Microsoft had problems when it was not possible to identify whether an, eg. GitHub account was from a person or an organisation. Would like SPDX to faciliate documenting such unknowns.
* Sebastian: Is identity like a monomorphic type?
* William: Identity today: Elements have a creator. Artifacts have an originator.
* Jeff: Artifacts have 'identity' already, but we need identity of an Actor (Agent)
* Dick: Sometimes Artifacts are signed with a key; there is implicit identity in the signature
* Vulnerability: discoverer, distributor
* Sebastian SSH/GPG Keys may correspond to a group, not an individual, so does not entirely solve issue
* Nisha: Doesn't believe that it is the scope of SPDX to be able to define identity on a real-world level
* William: Doesn't believe that any ecosystem is mature enough to do it comprehensively, but would like the facility for some use-cases
* David: Terminology of 'Identity' suggests that we are expressing more than we are with email addresses
* Dick: NTIA discussions had plenty of Identity-related conversation. Is a 'slippery slope' to intepret identity with regard to DNS, etc.
* William: Identities do not represent attested identities, not going to authenticate.
* David K: Identity or identifier? Does one lose anything if we rename the class?
* William: Optionally attach unattested identities (person's name or organization name)
* Nisha: Use-case: someone distributing third-party software but does not know the origin of the software, but does have an email address which may or may not be reachable.
* William: An identity may act under different roles in different scenarios / contexts.
* Henk: 'Identity Documents' contain identifiers
* David E: Concerned about 'scope creep' in taking on a large problem with universal singular identity.
* Brandon:  Attestation information may not be created by those identities.   William:  Identities are not attached to signing directly.
* William: Is "Created By" an indeitifier or an identity? The current definition distinguishes Person vs Organization.
* David E: Did we create a problem by over-specifying / over-constraining the element?
* Nisha do we want to constrain this or not?  Would like to have Sean's perspective.
* William: trying to establish requirements, so we can make tradeoffs.
* Sebastian: looking to see more general - gave example of POM files.   It isn't always clear, so wary of constraining too far.
* David Kemp:  Type of createdBy is Identifier 1..*   "name" is not an "Identity" (a unique identifier into the phone book or social security database).  It is just an "Identifier" or "Attribute"
* Brandon: To me, from provenance/attestations perspective, the ability to be actionable is useful. Is there enough information provided to be able to validate the signature - or to handle key compromise events. I may trust only certain build systems/products or certain organizations within a company.
* Dick: Identifiers need to be "verifiable" to be useful, during a risk assessment use case for EO 14028
* William:  Verified/or not - can be layered ontop, its a non goal.   Needs a hook to do the verification process.
* Karsten:  Consideration of passing further information in a supply chain.    Different serialization formats may also be a factor.
* William: Not attesting to all the identies in the document is a definition.
* Brandon:  Needs to be generic because "it depends".   Signing of SBOM is tied to attestation of identities.
* Bob: Letting it be defined, but not required.   But those that need to for interoperable capabilities, it needs to be there.
* David: Signer of SBOM has a credential with verifiable identity.  That's different from the "createdBy" content of the signed document.
* William:  Its always an actor, which may or may not be tied to and identity.    With an optional set of identifiers.    You can provide as much or as little information as appropriate.   If you know additional information about the actor, you can add it, but not requiring.
* Bob: Can put in a contract, but doesn't force everyone to have to it.
* William: Will have a model of this for next Friday.

* Will future SPDX be raised to ISO?
* SPDX 3.0 will come too soon after SPDX 2.x., so will not do 2.3 ISO
* Deploying SPDX 3.0 in enterprise is much more complicated because of lots of legacy infrastructure that more easily can add the SPDX 2.3 vulnerability feature.
* Survey.

## Build Profile
* Interested Karsten Klein, Bob Martin,  William Bartolomew,  Jeff Schutt, Brandon Lum,  Kate Stewart, Sebastian Crane
* AI:  Kate to send out a doodle poll.

## Defects profile
* Working for 2.3 - 3 hour session later today.

## 2.3 changes
* Dick looking for help,   Thomas willing to work with Dick, and fix up branch to something reasonable.
* Place holders for Annex F.
*  For future - https://ohshitgit.com/ has useful information for recovering from Git mistakes. The information is accurate, despite the fun, memorable name.
