SPDX Tech Team meeting 1st Feb 2022

## Attendees
* Gary O'Neall
* Dick Brooks
* Sean Barnum
* John Horan
* William Bartholomew
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* David Edelsohn
* Kate Stewart
* Jacob Wilson
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Karsten Klein
* Bob Martin
* David Kemp
* Henk Birkholz

## Regrets

* Sebastian Crane

## Agenda
* Recap from Docfest
* Making progress on discussion topics

## Notes
* 24 attendee [additional details on companies etc.]
* 6 topics - made it through all 6
  * Different categories of SBOM's
    * Why?  Important for producers, consumers?
    * Helps with comparisons
    * Example source code SBOM vs. container
    * Tools that transform - e.g. build stage
    * Source code
    * Post build analysis (e.g. binary)
    * Some of the opinion there shouldn't be different types - adds more properties, complexity
    * Suggest user guide /best practices
  * Linking to vulnerabilities
    * Need to decide if we include it directly in the SBOM or do we correlate to external documents
    * Consensus we need to work with other standards (VEX)
    * Need to have a way to state if a vulnerability was addressed
    * SPDX Defects response - moving towards VEX interoperability
    * Difficult to lifecycle documents with vulnerability data - easier to have a separate document
    * [Bob] - Allows for point in time signed statements which is needed by some use cases, agrees keeping separate is better
    * [Dick] - Agrees with keeping SBOMs and vulnerabilities are separate
    * [David] - VEX is communicated by CSAF documents now, if we want to include them in SPDX, would SPDX take the place of CSAF.
    * [William] - Thinking about a way to carry data from other sources, working on a way to do that
    * [Dick] - Think of it like a carfax, showing which vulnerabilities have been reported and which ones are exploitable
    * [Nisha] - External references are powerful - can point to another format that has that information - we should strengthen this for SPDX 3.0
    * Spec issue - will be addressed on the defects call
    * Respond to Thomas' doodle poll for the meeting times
    * [Dick] - Can also use the download location
  * MicroSBOM's - create more modular SBOM's
    * Consumers don't want lots of SBOMs
    * A tool that can flatten micro SBOMs into a more consumable larger SBOM would be critical
    * We could host this tool in the SPDX Github
    * Create the external document refs automatically
      * Limitation that the external document URI doesn't always have location
  * How to SPDX files relate to the NTIA component definitions
    * A component contains package files and containers according to SPDX
    * How do you do versions
      * Can use hash
    * Dick and Gary followed up
      * Discussed File vs Package
      * Agreed on Package adding a Type that can represent a File type of Package
  * Representing containers
    * Difference in how layers are represented by the different tools
    * Does the implementation detail in a container matter?
    * Practical matter - vulnerable packages may be in one layer and updated in a subsequent layer
    * Do you want the layers represented as how they are laid out on disk or how it is used at runtime
    * Update spec to include type
  * Package Verification Code
    * All package verification codes were different
    * Different "Contained" files
    * Is the package verification codes useful?
    * Conclusion: SPDX 3.0 we'll re-examine -
  * Should we do a 2.3 release focused on NTIA?
    * General agreement - it would help with NTIA conformance
  * Consider adding an external ref to help with VEX / vulnerability reporting
  * CSAF doesn't support a range of versions
  * Some concerns on CSAF - CSAF only reports on a product level, not a component level, need to use a product helper
  * Thomas gave an update on 3 scenarios for linking to vulnerabilities
    1) Embed vulnerabilities in SPDX e.g. making our own model that may or may not be compatible with existing standards in the field
    2) Link to a source that can provider security vulnerabilties information using https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/package-information/#721-external-reference-field and https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/external-repository-identifiers/  Example:  ExternalRef: SECURITY URL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rjb4standards/REA-Products/master/SAGVulnDisclosureSAMPLE.xml. Used keyword "URL" as referenceType but we could off-course decide to use another word. Benefits is that this could be included in a SPD 2.x version as minor update.
    3) Do not include any vulnerabilities in the SBOM but require via a profile that for each package the creator is required to specify an identifier CPE/PURL that a consumer can use to do its own look up with his/her security vulnerability providers
  * Is this the same as MUD?

## Meta Issues
* How do we represent changes in relationships over time in a package
  * Specifically talking about contents of a package
  * Also aplies to other relationship types such as dependendencies
  * NOTE: The artifact itself doesn't change, just the knowelege/ metadata about the artifact
  * Proposal:
     * New package with new relationships etc.
     * Version the relationships - a new version of the relationship but refers back to the same package - package element doesn't change
  * [David] - 2 questions - one tooling, one logical model
    * Suggest we choose a model that allows flexibility
    * [William] - Different options creates some complexity for the consumer
  * [William] - Proposal the Identity becomes its own object -
    * [Sean] - This approach would add too much complexity
  * [Henk] - Identifier - perhaps use an authoritive identifier such a CA
    * [William] - Not going to create an authority
    * [Henk] - Without an authorititative identifier, we may not be able to have reliable identity objects
    * [Dick] - Vulnerability work uses a supplier namespace
    * [Sean] - Issue isn't really identifying the product, rather identify for the Element - graph integrity is the issue
    * [Gary] - Exchange use cases are easier
    * [Sean] - This approach reduces but doesn't eliminate the orphans
    * [David] - Another solution for orphan problem, can have a field in the package - "hijacks" - updates revisions - can point back to the previous revision - doesn't completely solve the problems
      * [Sean] - Doesn't completely solve the orphan problem
      * [Sean] - Can use relationships - same problem between relationships and properties
  * [Henk] - SWID has patch and update to resolve this type of issue
  * [Gary] - Amends relationship is similar to SWID patch
  * [David] - Amending an artifact is different semantically from amending the meta
  * [Gary] - Exchange - only worry about orphans with a single document, but explicity don't try to solve the orphan problem across different exchange documents
  * [Sean] - Agree to focus on exchange for the resolving orphan problems, but would not want to focus just on exchange for all issues
  * [Sean] - Solving orphans in general is not a tractable problem
  * Proposal: - Focus on eliminating orphans within the exchange use cases, strive to minimize the orphans within a document.
     * [Sean] - some have significantly less chance of orphans.   Evolution what is contained done through relationships, very significantly reduced, compared to high churn on id of object.
     * [Gary] - If change the elements,  if it forces all to new element identity, need to include all from current graph with new ids.  Heavier lift for producer.
     * [Sean] - Producer shouldn't create obvious orphans - however it is a significant amount of work.

* Which options should we standardize on?
   * David - as long as logical model supports both, we should allow both.
   * Gary - if we go with option 2,  then we wouldn't have the files property, only the contains relationship.
   * Sean - if option 2, having files property, it may be contradictory to relationships.   If can say 2 different things, it becames suspect.  If option 2, that property goes away.
   * Gary - in SPDX 2.2 today, we have a contains relationship and a files property - could be possible contridictions in there.    Should we depricate the properties, and just go with relationships?   In RDF, is there any advantage for the reasoning?   Gary believes that properties should be simpler.   Is it significant enough that it should effect model.   Sean - querying is simple enough,   relationship becomes more powerful.   You can reason over eisether.   Relationship just requires more complexity in reasoning.   From several community projects,  rule of thumb in other communities  - "if relationship x and y is inherent and immuatable, default to property gives simplicity,  but if not, best to go with relationship. "   Doesn't have to change object itself.

Gary is now of opinion of going with relationships, and drop properties.   Note,  we can still convert to properties in serializations.

Sean cautions that relationship to property - serialization may end up be lossy.  David - never want to have lossy serialization.  Keep what may be lossy serialization as relationships.
Thomas - do want to keep available in serializations, which makes it possible to interoperate with other SBOMs format in the wild.   Keeping it simple and basic for package managers.   Others can extend.   Make it easy to provide the basics easily.

Gary - keep the serialization question open,  but logical model will be relationship based.
Gary - Tentative conclusion - in the logical model, there are NO files properties, only CONTAINS relationship between the package and the file.  We will still leave open for further discussion if we can serialize/deserialize using a files property which is equivalent to the CONTAINS relationship.

Final comment - the SBOM report is now available.
https://www.linuxfoundation.org/press-release/the-linux-foundation-releases-the-state-of-software-bill-of-materials-sbom-and-cybersecurity-readiness-research/
