# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, January 18, 2022

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jim Hutchinson
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda

* VEX maturity
* SPDX 3.0 Core
* SPDX Outreach Team meeting on Thursday

## Notes:
  * VEX
    * Gary found https://github.com/oasis-tcs/csaf/blob/master/csaf_2.0/prose/csaf-v2-editor-draft.md#45-profile-5-vex
    * David K also points to https://www.csa.gov.sg/-/media/Csa/Documents/Events/OTCEP-2021/aDolus-White-Paper--Introduction-to-VEX--V0100.pdf   - "When used to release a VEX document, the CSAF document
is composed of three main sections:"
    * JIm H also queries VEX pointing to a CVE helps?  https://www.csa.gov.sg/-/media/Csa/Documents/Events/OTCEP-2021/aDolus-White-Paper--Introduction-to-VEX--V0100.pdf  CVE can get you to packages & versions in many cases (when they get into identification & remediation)
    * Dick shows example use case for EO 14028: SPDX SBOM and SBOM VDR https://github.com/rjb4standards/REA-Products/tree/master/UseCaseVDR117 and Article describing the various vulnerability reporting options in use today: https://energycentral.com/c/um/terminology-confusion-regarding-vulnerability-reporting
    * (chat) Thomas -  I was looking for a schema file for it found ton of docs describing the concept but very little I can compute on.  I am looking at 3 case: 1. Embed a VEX in SPDX, 2. SPDX reference to CSAF or VEX doc, 3. Embed SPDX in a CSAF doc.   Struggling with 2 & 3 due to lack of examples/schemas so my current plan is to create a proposal and then have the community tell me where I am wrong and provide the needed examples.
    * (chat) Dick - The SBOM VDR is issued with an SBOM and then updates independently when CVE's are reported, while the SBOM remains static.  I can easily imagine having a property in a SPDX SBOM that points to a Vulnerability Report URL that can be updated independently of the SBOM but is always available at the URL listed.  Here's an example of the concept: PackageName: PowerToys (Preview)
PackageVersion: 0.15.2. PackageVulnerabilityReport: https://github.com/rjb4standards/REA-Products/blob/master/UseCaseVDR117/PToysVDR.xml

3.0 Core
  * Gary reviewed the decisions.md from last week.
  * Breakout group to propose specific element level verification per last week's discussion,  Sean, Henk, Sebastian, someone from Microsoft.    Sebastian has agree to take point on organizing this.
  * Issue #21
     * Relationship between properties and relationships.   Is it ok for us to define a property that overlaps with a relationship, and what does that look like?
     * Gary - historical issue with 2.2.   Package contains files is an example that exists today.   In RDF, everything is a triple, so more complex to resolve the graph.   From RDF perspective, its better to have them as properties, would make it simpler.
     * William - good to have properties for the fundamental relationships - ie. packages contain files is pretty fundamental.   Indicates common uses.   Do they all just serialize to relationships during round tripping?
     * David - the collection relationship, a list of elements, should belong in a property.
     * Nisha - Thinking about using relationships between external documents, in JSON serialization, have relationship within the external document object.   Could be independent of relationships.    **  CIRCLE BACK
     * Sebastian - can be minted subsequent to the elements that they connect.   Can't see which relationships will be created in future.    William - this doesn't remove ability to define relationships after the fact, just be able to describe in simpler and compatct way.   Short cut properties are deserialized to relationshps.   They would appear as concrete properties but would deserialized as relationships in logical model.
     * Gary - normalize the serializations - to the properties?  or to the relationships?   Allow different rules for different serialization formats.    Another question: do we want to still allow for there to be both?    Bob & Kate - error.    In RDF, library that manages graph,  much more expensive than just property.   If there is a duplicate relationship, use properties, not relationships.   Reading a JSON file, it is human readable, to have all the files in the package.   William, lot smaller, removes duplicate info.   David - semantic difference is a feature not a bug,  amend its content later.  Need to create a new element,  so prefer to see it used as a property and create a new IRI.   Nisha - is there a relationship collection - those that are global vs. those that are in object.     Collection can contain any elements.  Should a subset of relationships be a property on each of the classes?
     * Dick: SBOM would become a pointer list to objects that externally?  Sebastian:  yes, can assert completeness, which might be different from someone elses.
     * William:  SBOM is used for other purposes
     * David: Completeness - person A vs person B if his opinion of what is complete is different.
     * Kate: There are multiple types of SBOMS - Sources, Built images, Mined images.
     * William:  relationships still stay, but for the common scenario, have a shortcut available.  Exactly same as equivalent relationship.
     * Gary:  Do we allow in the model, properties that duplicate relationships?   May be a way of expressing fundamental?   William:  Part of defining a serialization and deserialization, how does this map back to the model.
     * Sebastian:  If serialize a list of files on package, then have a lot of extra stuff that is not relevant.
     * David:  IRIs less stuff than relationships.
     * Sebastian: Refers to Syft output.
     * William:  Relationship set with implication of completeness.   Is it a complete set with no files?
     * Gary: hasfiles to assert is in 2.2
     * William:  hasFiles has too many implications,   package verification code.   Turning on a use case.
     * Gary:  Should we put in profiles?
     * Thomas:  Would like to see more complex things being moved to profiles as required.
     * William:  If you want to indicate not completeness, fall back to relationships.   If use case doesn't meet precise meaning, have to use relationships.
     * Gary:  What happens if someone is doing both.
     * William:  both "Should not" be done in single document.   Between documents will be ok.
     * Thomas:  if we come up with how can existing schema validation technologies handle it.
     * William:  these are semantic constraints that can't be validated with a schema technology today.
     * Gary:  properties can be in general model, but constraints must be in a profile.
     * Sebastian:  Source package, having element reuse for dependencies.   Claim of list of files being complete should be detached.   Would like to make sure syntactic suger does not influence integrity of single element.
     * (chat) Gary: I'm starting to get concerned about the proposal on tying completeness to the property definition.  I can think of several complexities in the tooling if we take this approach.   Having the property and relationships being exactly equivalent makes it easier to serialize/deserialize/validate.  Propose having profiles define the completeness constraints on both properties and relationships
     * Henk: reuse of relationships is not unusual.   In data models, that are simpler than graph model data, it's simpler to have 1:m, but not n:m.
     * Kate:  3.0 permits 1:n - so how does adding property really save space.
     * William:  may be,   but does like that it communicates what common ones are,  and properties can be in profile.
     * Gary:  it's easy to reason out as property - very interested in RDF serialization.
     * William:  Does not preclude that RDF having this as a property in serialization.   Possibly as a layer on top of model.
     * David:  Problem with RDF is a symptom, not really a serialization issue.    Its a semantic concern.
     * Gary: In RDF there is a way to "same as"   - want to continue this with Sean on the call.

* Nice News: https://blog.chainguard.dev/what-an-sbom-can-do-for-you/
