# SPDX Tech - April  12, 2022

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* Brandon Lum
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Gopi Krishnan Rajbahadur
* Hardik Patel
* Henk Birkholz
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* New Person
* 2.2.2 Release
* 2.3 - ABNF - Pending Actions - Henk
* 3.0 - progress


## Notes

* Gopi introduction - interested in AI and license compliance
* Spec 2.2.2 Release - 604, 620 ok.   Thomas and Kate to tag.
* Spec 2.3
  * ABNF - some ambiguities that need be resolved - Henk to document in PR.
  * IANA - following up to find out who is handling right now,  pending.
* Spec 3.0
   * Canonicalization Meeting - Sebastian having problem with invitation for Friday.
   * Media type needs to be set for the calendar invitation to load. Thomas suggested using the web calendar to send the invitation correctly.
   * Identity
      * See requirements from last week.
      * William:
          * proposal - "thing that took action and attaching information about it"
          * Information we have vs. information we get later
      * Henk: provenance ontology has agent and actor - person, org, software agent - same level of importance
      * Sean: agree,  based on https://www.w3.org/TR/prov-o/ (agent, person, organization)
      * William: NIST digital identity - software device vs hardware device
      * William: proposal is to make things like email address and github account as "artifact" and things like person and org as "identity".
      * Gary: so we have an artifact url as email address?
      * William: yes email will have "mailto:...", but in general, the artifacts don't necessarily have to have a url as per the current SPDX 3.0 spec
      * Brandon: as long as there is a collection of metadata associated with it like OIDC. Any email address can be authorized by google and a different email which is not authorized.
      * Jeff: how is an artifact made of an email address?
      * William: more like "email is an artifact".Artifacts are the "things" in the supply chain,  everything else is "descriptive".  Phyically very little difference
      * Karsten:  Email accounts are awkward to be artifacts,  looking for something to be semantically closer to what we want.    William:  as we extend to other profiles, this will will hape scale.
      * Gary: The model makes sense, but if it requires significantly more properties to be interpreted (even if not required), then we should weigh the benefit related to the added complexity.  Example - created by is required - an EmailAddress will need to have a createdBy … Still looking at other implications.  Also - all the created information needs to be at least interpreted
      * Sean: The createdby is who created the element description of the email address not who created the email address itself so I don’t think that should be added complexity
      * Gary: I'll need to add more infinite recursion protection in the tools,  concern with emerging complexity.   Think of the Created-by example.
      * Sean: In my experience it does not add significant complexity and is providing a solution to real world use cases that need this capability
      * Sebastian: Artifact for digital things could be defined as 'things that can be hashed', although hardware BOMs could break that assumption.
      * William: use cases for when we don't know about the identity of the thing that created the artifact. Also we only know the github account but not who owns it. Proposal is to introduce "actor" as an entity who is acting in different roles. Associations (has a) to "identity" is "identifiedToBe", "onBehalfOf" and association to "artifact" is "identifiedBy". So this will look like "William Bartholomew on behalf of Microsoft using github account: iamwillbar". Here "actor" is an element.
      * Jeff: We can separate "artifacts" from "entities"
      * William: adding another base class may add more complexity - can take it or leave it
      * Gary: for simpler use cases where the email is enough, the model introduces more complexity. Maybe this belongs in a profile? Suggest giving a serialization example using the new model to see how tools can implement it. But maybe not.
      * William: possibly solve with some syntactic sugar that will make the convertion from serialization to model easier.
      * Gary: looks like there would be recursions in this model.
      * Sean: agree with Nisha on using the email address as proxies for identity. Also agree with Gary on serializing examples. Concerns: Most common case - element created by person and/or org would be complex. Actor and Subject are common ways of thinking about identity. Eg: one SBOM may use a github account and another one may have an email address. We've had challenges with this method before.
      * William: "actor" is more what was observed at a given point in time. If you know the person, you can easily create an identity.
      * William: alternative way of representing this by making an "identifier" class (basically they are not artifacts) which is "identifiedBy" "actor" or "actor" "using" "identifier".
      * Jeff: how to define actor and subject
      * William: this is more defining "role" than person. There can also be a relationship defined between actor and identity.
      * Gary: maybe "actor" can be a property of "subject" which points to another "subject"
      * William: that would negate the issue of modeling unknown entities
