# SPDX Tech Team meeting - 13 September, 2022

## Attendees
* Bob Martin
* Brandon Lum
* Bryan Cowan
* David Kemp
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Michael Herzog
* Patricia Tarro
* William Bartholomew
* Karsten Klein
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane

## Agenda
* SPDX 2.3 PDF
* SPDX 3.0
  * Download Location
  * Artifact URI
  * Extensions
  * Enumerations
  * VerifiedUsing

## Notes
* PDF
  * Previously was generated manually using Word
  * Attempts to generate using previous template and mkdocs plugin have not been successful
  * Sebastian has new template using LaTeX which shows promise with an outstanding issue around markdown tables
* 3.0 model discussions
  * Previous discussion covered DownloadLocation field.
  * Definition - where it was downloaded from or the preferred location to download it from
  * Should we be able to capture alternate download locations? ALTERNATE_DOWNLOAD_LOCATION as an external reference type? This could over File where the intent is not
* For vcsScheme we will drop support and only support URLs, Bazar and Mercurial will be encouraged to create URL schemes (Sebastian to follow up on this)
* Decision: DownloadLocation + ExternalReferences of type ALTERNATE_DOWNLOAD_LOCATION are where all potential download locations will be stored
* ArtifactURI
* Structurally not sure it makes sense to have
* discussion tends to circle back to PURL -> is there an option to differentiate URL/URI types semantically? is it better to aggregate them?
* discussion around the confusion caused by the name of PURL: is it an identifier or a locator? both. Do we want to perpetuate this semantic confusion into the SPDX 3.0 model? Is it more valuable to allow this messines and direct users to use one preferred / default identifier type that supports others?
* alternative forward-looking option is gitoid, which is a canonical, unique, immutable identifier
* 3 potential options for where in the model to place identifiers (decision could be more than one of) 1. as properties on file, snippet, package 2. as an artifact property :artifacturi 3. as external identifiers
* Capture ExternalReferenceTypes from 2.3 and define some ExternalIdentifierTypes
* "External" means that an element refers to something that is not an element, i.e., something that has a value that can be hashed/signed.  Artifact, SpdxDocument, Bundle refer to something external, e.g. an array of bytes.  Annotation, Relationship, BOM do not. Of the other element types, (Actor, Identity) identify how, if any, they refer to things that are not element values.
