# SPDX Tech Team meeting - 2 August 2022

## Attendees
* Aditi Sharma
* Adolfo García Veytia
* Adrian Diglio
* Alexios Zavras
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Hewett
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Michael Herzog
* Maximillian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* 2.3
* New Profiles
* 3.0

## Notes
### 2.3
* No issues identified with the RC1
* Kate may create some PR's for outstanding documentation only issues
* Main branch logistics - always contribute to main, then branch on release?   Kate & Gary: +1
   * Branch off of release branch, if update is needed.
   * Main is where bulk of development effort is happening.
   * Feature development branch for 3.0, before merge back to main.
* Aditi Sharma:  I do want to check if there is a way to include information on VEX in the latest SPDX version.
   *  There is linkage to CSAF & CycloneDX Vex documents in the current version.  https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3-RC1/how-to-use/#k1-including-security-information-in-a-spdx-document   Are you looking for something else?
   * Thanks for sharing. I haven't checked this link yet so will probably reach out to you after I scan this space. :)

### New Profiles
* Export Control
* Critical for New Hardware (country of origin, technologies not export)
* FOSSology is tracking it as well for software, and interested in it.
* Possible - Certifications - may need for Security, Safety, Cloud Services, PCI/SOC,  Embedded - UEFI/PSA, Communication.   This is just the Azure certifications: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/compliance/
* Functional Safety Evidence
     * Spinning out of ELISA project,  looking to record evidence and other key planning artifacts.   Some new relationships and primary package purposes.
* AI Working group update
     * Splitting to AI (applications/model) and Data Profiles

### 3.0
* Repository Changes - William proposing main branch;  general agreement.
* Review of Model: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/main/model.png
* Discussion of keeping SPDXDocument?
   * Interested in self description vs. how it is serialized.
   * DOCUMENT keyword continues to exist.   Contains all of elements,  but not forced to use (transferring a graph between systems)
   * File describes something in the outside world.  SpdxDocument describes something in the outside world
TransferUnit defines the serialized data (the DTD) that *is* the thing in the outside world.
   * Key is what can intend to reproducibly transfer as a unit.   Serialized piece of data that needs to be represented in data type section.   Canonicalization and hashing over canonicalization.
* Discussion of Creation Info - different options.
* Proposal to rename "Collection" to "Container" - to avoid confusion with RDF spec.
   * Nisha not concerned about Container
   * Gary reminded about W3C RDF approach was to not rename/define new name.  If confusing, prefix with SPDX in front.   Is about to go through exercise work through names, and make sure no inadventent changes.
   * Creation information in logical model, will need in mulitiple serialization specs, so best view.
   * Gary to review W3 doc's to container vs. collection.   Likely aligning to David's suggestion to rename.   Alexios disagrees - Collections are closed, Containers are open.  It's just a bag. An RDF Container instance is closed; every element is immutable. It is "open" in the sense that each instance has a unique IRI that allows edges from other elements.  An RDF Collection is a datatype without an IRI.  Element properties that are datatypes cannot be referenced (except as a relative path from the element's IRI), only copied.
   * Question for Canonical & Serialization committee:  How share an array of elements? A transfer unit can be a datatype object that has no IRI.  Its properties include namespace info, creation info, an array of element values, and an array of SpdxDocument IRIs.  One of the element values in the array can be an SpdxDocument that describes the transfer unit.  Many SpdxDocument elements (with different IRIs and creation infos) can describe the same transfer unit.
   * Reminder:  Use cases around auditing.  Envelope information extremely useful.
   * Examples on wrapping SPDX documents around SBOM to provide additional context.   Like use cases areound providing a beta version that is specific to a customer.
   * You need the information about the SBOM if you're going to audit it.  You put it in the SBOM element.  Pieces of multiple SBOMs can be put in a file (Document).   Only need SPDX document if you're talking about a file.
   * Alexios points out SpdxDocument is Unit of Transfer -- can be streamed, can be an email attachment (no download location)
