# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, January 11, 2022

## Attendees
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neal
* Henk Birkholz
* Jacob Williamson
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Peter ?
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda

* Closing the open github questions

Notes:
* Steve Lasker share this article around Roles and Responsibilities of SBOMs, Signatures, Scan Results: https://twitter.com/SteveLasker/status/1480749391338221571?s=20
* Model open questions
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/21#issuecomment-1005073351
* Referential integrity
* Open question how deal with single element, and validate it.   Agreement that you should be able to do this.   If referencing something external, should be able to carry along the necessary information.
* Sebastian: use case where want finer granularity than a full document.
* Sean:  verification by each serialization form or one canonical serialization format?
* Sebastian:  Each individual format has one way of doing things, but pass through canonicalization to a version (ie. binary serialization) that a hash can be calculated against.
* Willilam: has historically been at the logical document level, and transport level it is hashed.
* Sean: Physical it needs to be sidechannel,  logical can be embedded in.
* William:  SPDX today has the sidechannel associated with physical today.   Verification of artifacts is hashes, is physical.   If something refers to something outside the trust boundary, how handle - physical or logical.  Today its physical,  working through the use case for logical.
* Sebastian showed slides,  case for canonicalisation.    Analogy, to software validation back to hardware to trusted platform module.   Where you are in the pipeline has different  implications.
* Integrity only at the level of element that is signed.
* Sean:  in CI, able to deal with differentials between two releases, so signing individuals might have a savings.
* William:  discussed windows binaries, and that all the elements are likely to change as a result of a build,  integrity is validated by OS when launched.
* Sebastian:  if each individual artifact is signed, can customize further
* Gary:  Concern about complexity, and size explosion.   Producer is in control of bytes, so there is trust at that level.   Concern about being computationally intensive.    Leave it to producer to decide level of integrity they want to create.   If must do signatures on each element, it will kill adoption.
* Sebastian:  this is not a requirement, just make it possible.    Continued with slides, and referenced Canonical S-Expressions, Canonical XML,  Canonical Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)
* Gary: also have http://gibson042.github.io/canonicaljson-spec/
* Henk: recommends against inventing something new, and consider - fast, in memory, comparable.   CBOR is typically used to convey messages, in memory is super cheap.   Canonical JSON is also reasonable.
* Sebastian: Given we want to go to binary eventually, CBOR may more efficient.   Not discounting JSON and XML.
* Sean: any serialization can be canonicalized, for consideration:  1) can we semantically express model, 2) are there specific value points over that show benefits.   Am +1 on going for canonicalized.
* Gary: there a few things we agree on, and few we disagree on.
* Do folks think there isn't a obligation for each individual element?   No concerns raised?    Agreed.
* We all agree that signing each individual element is not a requirement.
* Independent of how its done, do we want to require that documents are still verifiable in 3.0?
* Sebastian:  Verify document where got it from or element.
* Sean: broadest scope of exchange, yes it will be needed.  But don't presume that sub pieces refer back to that.   Concern about using 2.2. document terminology.  Agree that a set of content with an outer scope is verifiable.
* Gary:  Do we agree that the unit of transfer is verifiable?   Yes, there's agreement.
* Gary:  Want to have a subgroup focusing on a specific format that can be dropped into the SPDX format to do the element level specifications?   Sebastian - care should be taken that it should not muss up mutation.  Subgroup should come up on the constraints on the element.   Sean - this follows from some of the conclusions last week.   Gary - single element would have the set wrapper around is an option.   2.2 satisfies the requirements we spoke about today.  Seb - incramental builds, and different level of signing, will be valid in the wider ecosystem.   Gary - want to have william here for cost/benefit level.   Bob - want to make sure we don't aim at ivory tower goal, and focus on hitting goal.  We'll need minimum viable, and getting it done on time.
* Verify that the contents are unchanged from the intent of the producer.

Follow ups:
* We need to define what is the verification for unit of transfer of a set given to the consumer
* We need to have a subgroup working on options for the canonical format.
* Signing each individual element hasn't been decided

Agreements:
* We all agree that signing each individual element is not a requirement.
* We all agree that a set of content with an outer scope needs to be verifiable.  (aka document level in 2.2)
