# SPDX Tech Team meeting - 30 August 2022

## Attendees

* Adolfo García Veytia
* Bob Martin
* Brandon Lum
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Michael Herzog
* Nisha Kumar
* Patricia Tarro
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane



## Agenda / Notes
* SPDX SBOM generator
    - Nisha: spdx-sbom-generator community meetings start tomorrow
      - Community meetings are held every Wednesday, 11:00am-12:00pm Pacific (2:00pm-3:00pm EDT, 6:00pm-7:00pm UTC), online. Join the meeting: https://meet.jit.si/SBOM-tools

* SPDX 2.3 cleanup
    - SPDX spec link on web page will be updated.
    - SPDX document contains differences in Annex I.

* SPDX 3.0 Punchlist
    - Which ambiguities remain for the model?
    * Held discussion based on https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/main/model.png  a month old, as no one had copy of version from earlier.
    * Ground Rules: This is not the serialization aspect today - focus just on model.

    - Snippet
       - Snippet is line range and byte range.   Yes.   Punch: Document beginning & end of snippet in model.
       - Definition from 2.3 is holding so far.   Please comment if disagree.
       - Sebastian: Factoring out a data element per Alexios should be revisited.   Sean supports.
       - Punch: Discuss and determine if we should add a "data class" and relationship between data class, file and snippet. Ping Alexios.  We may already have a relationtype suitable.   Content of a file is one object,  Metadata of a file is another object.
       - Punch: clarify location cardinality in model

       - File:
           - Looking at file & package and element itself.    Unique identifiers and Download locations.    Definition of external identifiers has type & locator - rather than identifier.   Should identifier be a "unique" identifier.    Unique identifier for an element, but may want multiple download locations.   File does not have downlocation where package does.   (0..* to download location on File)
              Punch:  Do we want to add a 0..* download location to file?
         - Punch:  Clarify definition of Package and File and how they relate to each other (including if download location makes sense for a file)

        - Package:
            - Punch: Revisit cardinality of Download location.  1..*
               - in 2.2 where it was downloaded from for analysis.    Need to discuss if want different defintion.  Audit vs. Consumer use case
            - Punch: Revisit cardinality of Home Page (depends on purpose - ie. marketing, developer)
            - Punch: Clause 7 fields reviewed for coverage.  Some should 2.3 become elements?  or more fields in the Package class?
            - Punch: Should Package URL be a property on package?

        - Artifact:
            - Punch:  Should Artifact URI be moved back into Artifact class. (one form of an external identifier)
            Actor URI and Artifact URI?   may make sense.   Like git object id.   Solves political problem.  Makes model easier to understand.
            - Punch: Should location be added to Artifact or at the Package/File/Snippet level?

       - Element:
         - Punch:  Should external locator and external identifier be called out in Element?
         - Fact/Artifact URI went to External Identifier.   Is this an alias list for the thing.   Reference
         - Punch: External Identifiers need to be better defined.
         - Punch: Gain concensus and clarity on type of extension element.  (clarify - Map<IRI, any>   Structure or dictionary map?
         - Punch: Assess if data model proposal (Alexios)  works with VerifiedUsing (example SPDX document element)
         - Punch: Clarify if VerifiedUsing refers to integrity of the 'thing' described by an Element, or the integrity of the Element data itself (its canonical representation)?  Capture and enable both with separate "targetVerifiedUsing" and "elementVerifiedUsing properties?  targetVerifiedUsing would go in Artifact, not Element.
         - Reminder Element is an abstract element.
         - Punch: On ExternalReference and ExternalIdentifier indended to be abstract and if so, how does it work.

       - Annotation:
           - String for human being or machine.  If want structure use "extension".
           - Key is applying statement against another element.   Can be misused.
           - Annotation is a subtype of element.   Element with an adhesive element.  Annotation about annotations are possible.
           - Punch: Provide a complete list of annotation types.

        - Enumerations
           - Punch:  Need to be made complete with values pulling forward from 2.3
           - Punch:  Should they be closed, or allow folks to add things. (Folks can always add other things to their software, but can those things claim to be SPDX-conforming?)

        - Actor:
            - Punch: should Actor have it's own identifier property? See ArtifactURI.

         - Relationship:
             - Punch: what are the use-cases for relationship cardinalities (from+to) and directions.
             - Punch: Revisit cardinality of relationshipCompleteness. (In context of serialization. )  Default, optional  are conflicting.
            - Punch: Articulate all the Enumerated relationship types for 3.0

        - Checksum Enumeration:
            - Punch: Consider adding "OTHER"

- Overview 3.0
  - Punch:  Create an spreadsheet Review 2.3 and 3.0
  - Some discussion of SHAQL & Implementation discussion (David, Gary, Sean, etc.)
  - Punch: Do we want to restrict Enumerations or allow extensions?   Historical we've kept it restricted for Consumer benefit.
  - Punch: Should Profiles or closed, or enable extending definitions.
  - Punch:  Anything in 2.3 we need to justify why we depricate.   Already depricated, we don't need to revisit.
  - Punch: How do we handle optional fields with default values in model?   Should optionality be part of data model, not in information model?   Can you answer the question is this complete at logical model level?  Do we want to have consistent approach across all fields.   When not present stating default value, etc.

- The following classes were not discussed on the call:
    - Actor
    - Identity
      - Person
      - Organization
      - Tool
   - Collection
     - Bundle
       - SpdxDocument
    - BOM
      - SBOM

Next steps:  Classify types of punch list items as:
 1. never discussed before
 2. discussed before and we believe we have consensus (decision in minutes)
 3. revisiting, discussed befored but we know we didn't reach consensus
