# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, January 1, 2022

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximillian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
- General Update - Gary
- Core Punchlist - Gary / William - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues

## Notes

- General Updates:
    - Conversation about potential collaboration between SPDX and CycloneDX to avoid friction for organizations that plan to use both.  Andrew & Phil arranged meeting w/ Allan, SPDX and CycloneDX specification reps.
    - Plan to work together on NTIA minimum common core and to ensure that both standards interoperate.
    - Tools being written to convert between each standard,  Patrick & Gary focusing on this.
    - CDX feedback about missing elements that motivated CycloneDX.
    - Goal is lossless, but not all are convinced this is possible.
    - Feedback from CDX about issues with SPDX
       - Software identification one and only one for source code. Artifact URL in 3.0
       - Cardinality of (?), which is the single UPC label to be used Which is the URL for the entire package
       - Validation complexity. SPDX too complex?  Schema that one can validate against without custom code.   JSON schema is intermediate towards to this.
       - XML preferred by CycloneDX   Lack of full XML support is a factor for SPDX,  volunteers welcome.
       - No tag - value schema.
       - Security vulnerability information. Include in SBOM, not separated and correlated.  Security information changes over time.  Internal, external or CSAF reference?
      - SPDX License model positive feedback.
    - Dick: Separate makes sense to me so that VDR can evolve separate from an SBOM, but must be able to correlate VDR (SBOM Vulnerability Disclosure Report) - an open-source option: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rjb4standards/REA-Products/master/SAGVulnDisclosure.xsd to SBOM.
    - David - wanted schema validation for all of the formats.   Providing valid and invalid examples, should be adopted by SPDX.    Concern about recursive and  referenced data structures.    Should turn nested data structures into references.
    - David K & Max willing to collaborate on tools,   Dick also willing to support collaborating on tooling.
    - CDX provides Protobuf format in addition to JSON and XML
    - Gary found a utility to generate JSON documentation.   Gary to look at adding this into 2.2 CI scripts.
Other:
    - Rose: Planning DocFest for end of January
    - Replicant steering committee,  license compliance WIKI
    - FOSDEM 2022 Software composition and dependency management schedule was announced, quite some interesting SBOM talks see https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/track/software_composition_and_dependency_management/
    - Sebastian:  https://github.com/microsoft/component-detection/issues/22#issuecomment-1002413872
    - Vulnerability linkage - service, challenges, etc.   Some things to leverage.  Parsing of ExternalRefs and download locations can be translated into more "product" centric (that VEX) is oreinging about.
    - There is no one UPC system for software, which is why we're having to aim towards fuzzy matching so var.

Positive and Negative Test Cases Repo
- examples repo - can we expand to include negative test cases?
- Thomas has been working on a test suite for tool curators to clarify edge cases and test cases.
- Inter tool communication is going to need this.   Dependency graph modeling.   Different ids, to different packages.   Suggest that we keep examples separate, and start into a test suite.   Recommendation implementation for new evolving features for Maven new features as an example.   New Repo?
- General agreement that this should be a new repo.    Test data & valid and invalid example of test data.   Possibly structure docfest to target test data contributions after discussions.    How should SBOM look like for a specific weird case.   Here's how interpret standard.   David K is =1 on syntax & semantic correctness, not just syntax which is covered in CycloneDX Test examples - both "valid" and "invalid" test cases:  https://github.com/CycloneDX/cyclonedx-core-java/tree/master/src/test/resources/1.3
- Sebastian: examples for other packaging ecosystems would be useful.  Maven, Python, ... etc.
- Thomas: so don't have to support all the details in the spec, move this to the examples - and have way for others to contribute to list for language specific.   ie. 400 languages.
- Dick: be lenient on what you receive, and strict on what publish. David K: "liberal in what you accept" is OK as long as there are also strict acceptance (lint) tools - https://tools.ietf.org/id/draft-thomson-postel-was-wrong-03.html

Core Punch List:  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues
  - Hash: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/8
  - Gary:  In tag:value there are three components, an algorithm identifier (SHA1), a separator (“:”) and a checksum value. The RDF shall also contain an algorithm identifier and a checksum value. For example, when the algorithm identifier is SHA1, the checksum value should be a 160-bit value represented as 40 lowercase hexadecimal digits. For other algorithms, an appropriate number of hexadecimal digits is expected.
  - Max: Random information: nixos uses (also) SRI hashes for encoding of hashes, that results in strings like "sha256-IdU23rswdtT26QRL2e8VyMWLKfnL1K1AawWDEKVl3rw=", is base64 (see: https://nixos.wiki/wiki/Nix_Hash)
  - William:  If textual based serialization,  you should use this format.   If there is a natural binary encoding for the format, then that could be used.   In logical model,  it's a byte array, then serialization states if it goes to text or binary.   All text encoding should be as we've got it today (lower case hex) for compatibility reasons.
  - Sebastian:  YAML used to allow binary data to be encoded but nowadays strings are used
  - Decision: In logical model,  it's a byte array, then serialization states if it goes to text or binary.   All text encoding should be as hexidecimal lower case text (as it is in SPDX 2.2)
  - Meta issue (issue #21)
    - Can you serialize an element without a document with nothing else
    - David - the logical model is based on independent elements, every element stands by itself.  Once you deserialize you are left with elements?
    - William: Post serialization, you have a set of elements - Do we need to solve single level integrity?  Can we just have document integrity?
    - Once you serialize a single element with a document you can have document level integrity
    - Sebastian: liked David's earlier phrase - SPDX 3.0 is a map from Element ID to elements. A document can be just one key to one value.
    - Gary: you need a way of validating the integrity. If you serialize just one Relationship, you get a document with one Element. This can't be done with today's model.
    - David: Package had been a collection until discussed where it was decided to make Package an Artifact. The serlialised SPDX data is a type of Artifact itself, which allows you to reference the serialised document in SPDX.
    - Gary: we have consensous that we want to be able to communicate a single element
    - Sebastian: we shouldn't require that people sign SBOMs, but SPDX 3.0 should support signing in all cases
    - David: Document doesn't have to contain the verification information, it can be done externally via hash
    - Nisha: How do you validate a package?
      - William: the validation is for the information about the package [metadata] not the package itself
  - Willam: a 3rd consensus point - if you are referring to something external, then you should alwasy capture integrity values you expect on those external things
  - Steve L: I was just going to comment on whether the validation is a signing scenario?
    - Reference to inclusion of scan results
  - William: At a requirements level - verifying whether something has been tampered with and/or signature validation.  Keeping it ambiguous at this stage.
  - Steve: Who created the SBOM?  Who created the reference?  Do you trust the creator?
  - William: This is different from has the SBOM been tampered with - although you can use a signature to verify it hasn't been tampered with
  - Karsten: 2 requirements 1) integrity of SBOM(s) 2) Authenticity - these shouldn't be mixed - don't expect to be able to verify a single element
  - Gary: Having a single element serialized and having integrity requirement does not require the integrity information be included within the element
  - David: Source integrity does not alway imply referential integrity
  - William: Signatures are a signed hash so it also support integrity.  If we get integrity, authenticity should be an easy lift since we have a "hash"
  - Dick: Signatures by itself doesn't alway solve the authenticity issue - need a way to verify the signer
  - William: 3 levels: Integrity, Authenticity and Trust
  - Karsten: 4th level - Authority ; William - part of trust
  - Consensus points - Sebastian still needs to think about
  - Request for Sebastion - use cases where we would need a different requirement

Backlog:
    - version discussion
