# SPDX Tech - May 3, 2022

## Attendees
- Gary O'Neall
- Rose Judge
- John Horan
- Sebastian Crane
- Alexios Zavras
- Thomas Steenbergen
- Nisha Kumar
- Jeff Schutt
- David Kemp
- Bob Martin
- Henk Birkholz
- Maximillian Huber
- Brandon Lum


## Regrets
- Kate Stewart
- William Batholomew

## Agenda
- SPDX 3.0 references - where should we point those that are interested? [Spec](https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3-draft/) is out of date.
- (Rose) SPDX Tag Value format - are we still recommending this format? What's the value of this unique format as we try to move towards a more interoperable ecosystem?
- GSoC Update
- Build profile - "provider" class (Nisha and others) - Move to next week
- 2.3 Pull request

## Notes

### Tag/Value format
- Dick - Tag/Value most prevalant in the Docfest
- Spec is more tag/value centric
- Slightly different hieararchy
- Aligning the spec with JSON would help
- Suggestion we deprecate for 3.0
- Sebastion - 3.0 may be more approriate for tag/value
- Will wait for Kate before making any decisions
- Thomas - Tag/value is a blocker for wider adoption
    - Simpler paresable standard formats
- Rose: Suggest at least have JSON be the main examples instead of TV
- Is this specific to tag/value - yes, not an industry standard
- Rose: No value in the unique format and it puts folks off (difficult to implement and integrate, as there’s no standard library support), especially when it has a prominent place in the spec as the default.
- Multiple language parser available
- Gary: Human readable is one of the reasons
    - YAML is an alternative to tag/value which is already standardized and human readable
- Dick: if want to to make JSON the default format, we need to fix the spec - it is currently all tag/value; replace the default format in the docfest for JSON
- Sebastian showed an example of SPDX 3.0 in a TOML serialisation; TOML is very similar to traditional Windows and UNIX configuration files
- Alexios: The DocFests shouldn't prioritise a single serialisation format
- Maximillian feels that the JSON schema documentation is insufficient by itself
- David: having accordian menus is nice when using the web, but a non-interactive form of the specification is critical.
- Nisha: Haven't seen any difference in implementation difficulty between CycloneDX and SPDX
    - Each spec has some wiggle room for different use cases which makes implementations inconsistent
    - Visualization of formats - JSON isn't meant to be human readable
    - Having different formats doesn't solve the issue with huge blobs of text
- Henk: Question on JSON being human readable
    - Large software systems produce very large SPDX document perhaps gigabytes which could be difficult
- Gary: Is the size related to the format?
- Max: a 50MB tag value is also unreadable for humans
- Henk: can do substitutions to reduce the size - there are standards.  Also binary formats may be size and energy footprint relevant factors.
- Brandon: Flat text files doesn't provide navigation support
- Brandon: just joined so may miss context here. I think the format of the document doesnt have to necessarily be human readable, but there should be an easy way for human to use the consume it using a tool. I dont think humans will end up reading the SBOM document by itself, flat files have limit user experience.
- Sebastian: Some use cases would prefer human readable
- Gary: SPDX lite is one use case where tag/value would be appropriate
- Thomas: Spreadsheet format is a good human readable format
- Henk: Representation problem - how to present the data is different - each representation needs an application to look at the data
    - Availability of tools
- Follow up items:
    - Documentation issue - JSON format more accessable  - more face time
    - Supporting multiple formats still supported - Max registered concern that too many formats are an inhibitor for consumers
        - Need to have a single model and support full round-trip
    - Docfests need to be more even on the different formats - currently, tag/value seems to be preferred, we should move more to JSON
    - TOML - possible future for 3.0, future discussion
    - Postpone decision on tag/value support unitl Kate is on the call
    - Need serialization rules - Add to topics for the canonicalization meeting - Sebastian will add this to the deliverables from the Canonicalization meeting

### GSOC
- Recieved 10 applications
- Need reviewers
- Please help reviews
- 1 Application with SBOM Conformance -
- Needs to be done this week
- Gary will do the Java review
- Nisha will help out
- Sebastian will help out

### Where do we send folks who are interested in SPDX 3.0?
- Rose: People are interested, but where do we send them?
    - Suggest removing the SPDX 3.0 spec from github.io/spdx-spec
- Nisha: Can we start coding up some documentation, especially around serialization
- Rose: Interest in vulnerabilities - question on vulnerabilities profile
    - Need general information
- Do we move to a new repository?
    - There is a separate repo for v3.0 model
- Consensus current situation is confusing
- Consensus to remove the 3.0 branch from the spdx-spec and remove the github.io related page - Thomas will remove
- Request for the source on the 3.0 model - follow-up discussion with William
- Communicate removal of the SPDX 3.0 branch
    - Email to tech group - Bob will draft

Email: To SPDX-tech Group

Greetings all.

Drafting the new SPDX 3.0 model is nearing completion - we recently defined several key features and are now preparing to write the final specification.  We've become aware that in several places in our GitHub org things are labeled as SPDX 3.0 which are out-of-date, confusing several users. In this week's SPDX Tech Team meeting we have decided to do some spring cleaning and will remove all out-of-date 3.0 labeled materials.

To see the latest state of SPDX 3.0 you are welcome to have a look at the [Model Diagram](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/main/model.png).  You can also track the discussions in the [SPDX 3.0 model repo](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model) or see our [meeting minutes](https://github.com/spdx/meetings/). Most importantly, if you would like to contribute to SPDX 3.0 yourself, feel free to join our weekly Tech Team meetings - see https://spdx.dev/participate/tech/ for the details.
