# SPDX Tech Team meeting - 5 July, 2022

## Attendees

* Adolfo García Veytia
* Bob Martin
* Brian Fox
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Ivana Atanasova
* John Horan
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew
* Henk Birkholz

## Agenda

* Hash collision SHA1-DC concern
* Rose Judge's license question
* 3.0 model
* License namespace update (if time permits)

## Notes

### SPDX License List versioning

Question to group: with different versions of the SPDX License List, are there only removals, additons or both? Answer is that there are typically only ever additions. Some license IDs were deprecated but not removed; only one identifier ever truly deleted (due to a conflict).

### Discussion of addition of the SHA1-DC algorithm

Discussion of whether SHA1-DC should be added, as per request by David Wheeler. Is it even a different algorithm? It is the same cryptographic hash algorithm, but contains logic to determine hashs which are likely to be vulnerable to collide.  David points out that If SHA1-DC output was defined to have additional bits to resolve the collision, that would be a legitimately different algorithm.

Decision was to defer this for SPDX 2.3 to 3.0, and ask David Wheeler to elaborate on proposal.
AI:  Kate to close her PR,  generate a new one for typo fixes spotted.   Open issue against 3.0 spec.
Gary: Here's the link to the GitHub collision article: https://github.blog/2017-03-20-sha-1-collision-detection-on-github-com/

### SPDX 2.3 release

Critical Path - documentation.   Asking William to help out with the Github Action.
* Challenge is that occaisonally the merges to 2.3 branch, are not getting posted to the right HTML web site pages.    Not getting published all the times.
   * Designed that the workflow was to be the same in every branch,  may be a factor of which branch the last checkin was to.   Will try to take to a look at.   Old problem of trying to be the same may be the work around for now.

### SPDX 3.0 Model discussions
#### Identity/Subject
* Identity does not exist in specification for 2.X, but may be in RDF model.
* Introduce base class - called identity.   There's a NIST standard around digital identiies,  used subject to refer to person, organization, services.   There was some pushback on use of subject as being too broad.
* David:  Depends on what the value could be,  prefers to be "Identifier"   for strings.
* William:  Identifier is something else (actor has identifier - identified by),  relating the actor to the identity, so different.
* David prefers identifierby to be property of actor rather than on every element.
* Sebastian, Bob weighed in on preferences.
* SPDXID should keep SPDX prefix to distinguish from identifier.
* Conclusion:  Identity rather than subject.   SPDXID is preserved as well.

Identifiedby - on Artifact as well as Element.   Enables supporting identifiers outside the SPDX ecosystem use case.

Reverse arrows to say identifiers are a type of External references.  External references may not be unique identifiers.

Do we have the usecase of External references being non-identifiers (examples would be email id).   Example is where do you contact the committer/responder.

Consumer of SBOM - looking outside of SBOM for extra information.   Other case is determine which SPDX information applies.   External reference email to identify what need.

Subtlety - if CPE does not identify specific package,  range of versions, not compatible with definition of package.  Ability of something to be an identifier, depend on what it is identifying.   Ie.   What should be done for a "service" - something more general may be applicable here.

Core definition of identity is 1.    A range should not be an identifier.
Easier to envision a relationship to identify a range,  but not range in identifier.
David: Version range or wildcard, may be a group - is thing member of group?
William:  Never say my identity is this range.   Identified by this specific one.
David: An element refering to a CPE,  and CPE had wildcard, set of version.
William:  Yes, Legitimate identifier reference, but at element end - always singular.  But at the referencing, needs an ability to express a range.   Ability to reference a range, is more nuanced than just the identifier.   Each package manager.
Max:  Is a PURL without a version a unique identifier?   William:  not of a package, but something.   Max: CPEs, some doen't require version.  Not all.  William:  Github repo example, not requiring version or gittag.(https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/master/PURL-TYPES.rst#github).   Having a package that refers to a whole repository doesn't make sense.

Discussion ensued as to extent of fully qualified vs. not is identifier.
Example is binary analysis on a blob.   Can't fully qualify the PURL.   Incomplete identifier on the package.
Pointing people to external source, without knowing exactly which one.   Queries may need to match.   Communicating to end use what can do with informaiton.  Not conveying if intededed to be complete.   Wondering if it can be considered an identifier - "could be", "may be".  Should have enough info to know.
Bob: If it's not unique, its a search string.

William:  Difference between identifier range, search - at element end - always reference one.   At  external - may have search semantics.   If want to share partial information you have.
Kate:  Namespace & SPDXID can be unique identifier in absense of other information, when not authorative entity.
David: A single entity (package or person) has a unique identifier that doesn't match any other entity assigned by an authority. A group or query could unambiguously match a set of identifiers.  And the group/query could itself have an identifier.
Sebastian: Everyone uses non-fully-qualified names for things for convenience, so they are pretty embedded into how people view things.  "As a consumer I would assume, that two different packages that have a common identifier are the same package. Is that true?" - yes, I think that's what we're coming to.

* Conclusion:  Every identifier has an authority of some kind.   Value understood by authorithy.  Should be compared to a unique entity, and compared with an equals.

Willian:  Need to be able to capture the range case, with out diluting identifier too much.
Max: Challenge is identifying it is a sufficiently strong PURL.   What it needs to be declared to be unique.   Semantic requirements.
Adolfo: Exactly!  Identification is defined by the excternal system.
Uniquely identified by?
Max: Struggle with which side is unique.
Gary: Is there another property to capture external references that are not identifiers?   William:  Yes.
If unique identifiers - they are identifiers,  otherwise they are references?
David: An "identifier" can refer to a resource.  The resource refers to latest version of something.   Willliam: This is a locator.   It's additional info about the package, its not the package.  David: the authority (e.g. npm) is responsible for ensuring integrity of the sequence of versions - package "xyz" is a unique idenifier that cannot refer to any other package. It's counterintuitive to think of package name as "additional info".

#### Document
#### ExternalReference (follow up from RSA)
