#SPDX Tech - May 17, 2022

## Attendees
- Aditi Sharma
- Alexios Zavras
- Bob Martin
- Brian Fox
- David Edelsohn
- David Kemp
- Jim Hutchinson
- John Horan
- Gary O'Neall
- Henk Birkholz
- Ivana Atanasova
- Kate Stewart
- Karsten Klein
- Maximilian Huber
- Nisha Kumar
- Rose Judge
- Sean Barnum
- Sebastian Crane
- Thomas Steenbergen
- William Bartholomew

## Agenda
- SPDX Implementers - Rose
- SPDX 2.3 - Issue/PR Progress - Kate
- SPDX 3.0 - Core Model - William
   - Specification Version topic (canonicalization team request)

## Notes

* SPDX Implementers
  * moving to every other wednesday 8am PST
  * Is there a public way of finding out about this group?
    * Mailing list page - has info,  looking for place to point them. https://lists.spdx.org/g/spdx-implementers
    * Sebastian also volunteered to put info in the wiki
    * Kate proposed having a resource to help people with mapping minimum fields for NTIA SBOM to SPDX
    * Options,  website,  spec appendix & blog with link to spec, or ???   Annex is Alexios preference.     Some concensus on adding to Annex.    Kate to write the PR needs to be generated, and tag Rose & Nisha.
      * Rose will add to the SPDX examples.
      * Nisha volunteered to write blog post about NTIA minimum requirements mapping.
      * Also GSoC proposal for writing a conformance checker.
  * 3.0 SPDX formats - too many formats, what's a good format to take on first.
    * Debian community - serialisation formats are the fastest way to start a flame war!
  * Upcoming 2.3 release
     * As soon as draft spec is out,  implement and pass back to spec team.

* SPDX 2.3 : https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+milestone%3A2.3+
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/674 - will we change, or just merge.   Merged in call,   may be additional tweaks to indicate its a "proprietary whiskeyware license"  - Pending if Thomas feels strongly about this.
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/679 - swinslow/tsteenbe?  License clarifications.  Gary to tag swinslow after adding to repo, and ask for his input.
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/673 - missing DCO signoff, can it be added.  AI:  ping Henk on Thursday to fix.  Thomas to fix up, as he's signed off one of the commit.   From chat:  Henk Birkholz (he/him) to Everyone (12:01 PM) @Kate yes, if anything is left to do I leave it to Thomas capbale git foo. Sry for being stretched so thin
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/671 - other input - not sure we want this as a "profile", but just fields in 2.3.  Opinions?   ok to merge?
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/670 - ok to merge (marked as WIP),   also, does it make sense to put in a section on how to implement NTIA SBOM minimum elements table here?  (see emails from tech list).   Thomas will make more changes, and then ping Kate to review.
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/643 - rebased?  still conflicts - help please in resolving.
     * Sebastian to resolve and merge. Update: already merged in a previous rebase; please see pull request thread for details.
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/638 - Sebastian, can you follow tsteenbe's request so we can merge.
     * Merged in call.
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/635 - Ready to merge.   Rose, can you help resolve the conflict?
     * Rose to worked on during call.   Merged
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/629 - Merged
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/547 - Gary, can you take a look here?
     * Will handle all OWL PR's after draft published with new field.  Gary to take point on new master PR.
     * Sebastian to make sure that Paul gets credit for his contribution.
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/501 - Thomas,  next steps?  someone willing to recreate?  etc.
     * One PR from Gary to fix all at once.
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/474 - Merged
  *   https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/464 - need swinslow or other on legal team to review.
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/681 fresh (today), license namespaces - reviews being looked for.

* Anything else for 2.3?
   * Double check that issues are covered, and all tagging done.
   https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+milestone%3A2.3



* SPDX 3.0
  * SpecVersion Format (Canonicalization)
    * Sebastian: see email about the "SpecVersion" property. Three different options: 1. Structured data field - major, minor, patch of integer type 2. Plain string 3. Enum published by SPDX
    * Kate: It's currently 2 (https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/document-creation-information/), but can see value in int.int.int
    * Sean: if no 2 you can apply regex
    * David: this is string format but what about content of the string? You can serialize the string or restrict the string to be int.int.int. but how does this look like in terms of content.
    * Max: would go for the solution that occupies the smallest space i.e. string over structure. No enumeration.
    * Sebastian: what semantic properties do we want to retain when converting between formats. So the canonicalization represents the lowest common denominator of these properties.
    * David: one of the criteria should be sortability. Sorting is different between int and string.
    * Max:  sortability and semantics should not be in scope of discussion, it's how we want to serialize it.
    * Sebastian:  what parts of the data should be well preserved, and not left to tool providers.
    * William (from chat): I would say (3)/(2)… nearly every manifest file treats it as a string and our enums are string based so can be used for validation.
    * William: most package managers use semver. Lots of libraries available for manipulating semver. Serialization is a string, and there is a spec for semver for comparison.
    * Alexios semver is mostly about APIs, we will use it for file/data format. We have to make explicit when we change numbers, since it might not be obvious when these happen; e.g., adding new fields can be considered a backwards-compatible change (like adding new functions to an API) or not (like adding new arguments to existing API calls)
    * Sebastian: you can't ignore fields you don't know about
    * William: if there canonical representation of a new datatype that's a breaking change
    * William:  I think it is string constrained to the SemVer spec.  We can rigorously parse strings.
    * Nisha: It is for the specification version, not for elements?
    * Sebastian:  for every element, which specification version it follows.
    * Sebastian: how much do we want to constrain it. If we do we perhaps don't need to parse
    * Kate: would go for option 2 but following the SPDX versioning. Add patch version to the format is what we're doing today,  and dropping "SPDX-".
    * William: agree, then we can use exisitng SEMVER in string.
    * Sebastian:  It's a structured datafield in major.minor.patch?
    * William: It is a string conformant with SEMVER, and leave it at that.
    * Max:  Restrict it down would make it easier?
    * William:  Don't think we gain a lot by restricting it down.
    * David: +1 for Max restricting SPDX to numeric major, minor, patch.  SPDX spec version does not need to take the full flexibility of "alpha", "rc", etc.
    * Sean:  Hearing agreement on string, constrained to follow semver.

All present agreed that the SpecVersion property will be a string that is constrained to one of a set of canonical options published by SPDX in the current or any future specifications. This allows for the property to be represented in the Canonical Serialisation opaquely but consistently.


William then reviewed the model diagram.
   * Sean wants to consider the extension a bit more,  and then come back.
   * Rough concensus seems emerging that this is closer - submit .png & .drawio
   * Identifying:  There are time we don't really know who the actor is.    We want to optionallly the "thing" doing something with a person/organization, and that could change over time.     Actor:Subject:Person:Organization -
   * We'll allow you to describe actors and people,  for core won't be specific, but this is something that can be done in profiles.   Actor is the thing that was observed doing something.    But we're making no assertion that the actor is a particular person or organization.   Subject in the diagram was originaly "identity",  went with subject so different, and was in NIST.
   * Left tool off for now, and see if it's something other than a subject.
   * Actor linked to a subject by a relationship.
   * Sebastian likes the term subject.
   * Gary: Please add in tool back under subject.   William agrees.
   * Sean: Wants to think about a bit more.   Not sure if subject is best choice, would prefer to see identity.   Sebastian agrees that subject may be overloaded.
   * David: Likes separation on identity from actor.   Can we make created by property be 1:1, rather than 1:m.   Want to identify one actor.    William:  SPDX 2 allows multiple, so retaining ability.   Bob:  Lot that have multiple.  David: one actor created an element, and multiple identities?   Sean:  not sure this is appropriate.
   * Kate: Please add in Usage and AI working groups to diagram
   * Sean: leave as it a PR, and not merge it.   Still some things need to talk aobut. Please both image and editable drawio diagrams file.
   * For discussion next week.
