# SPDX Tech Team meeting - 23 August 2022

## Attendees
* Kate Stewart
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary ONeall
* Alexios Zavras
* Joshua Watt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* William Bartholomew
* Dick Brooks
* Ivana Atanasova
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Michael Herzog
* Sebastian Crane
* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Aditi Sharma
* Bob Martin


## Agenda
* 2.3 Final cleanup stuff
* [SPDX Semantic Examples Proposal](https://github.com/puerco/spdx-examples/tree/semantics/semantics) [Pull Request](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/46)  (Adolfo García Veytia)
* 3.0 Model

## Notes

* 2.3 PDF still missing.
  * Dick Brook, willing to help.   Ditto with David Edelsohn.   Sebastian has some insight from the repo,  so Kate to start an email thread.
  * Gary believes we use mkdocs - would this plugin help? https://pypi.org/project/mkdocs-with-pdf/
  * William willing to code this up in github actions, once this gets figured out.
  * William, Kate, Sebastian, David(?) and Alexios(?) to have a call to work out PDF generation

* SPDX Semantic examples
   * Adolfo works on 3 tools,  Brandon on SPDX go tools,  Nisha working on Tern.   Sharing types, and code to analyze repos for licenses/deps.   Do not want to see tools fragmenting semantic interpetations.    Proposal is to use examples to make sure that the semantics are clarified.   How represent container images, link back to source code repository, etc.  Capture what most of the community expects from the representations (aligning the tools, and have discussion on PR based way).
    * Kate, Thomas, Alexios are enthusiastic.   Sebastian as well, as a good way to explore differences in SPDX 2.
    * William: I was experimenting with having a patterns library: https://iamwillbar.github.io/spdx/3.0/patterns/structural/
    * Alexios:  Suggest using separate branches for work until we build concensus, then commit to main.   Gary indicates that we could use releases for this.
    * Adolfo: Key is getting something down and discussion started.

* 3.0 Payload - still makes sense?
   * Distinction between Payload and SPDX document,  Payload isn't an element.   "Implements"
   * Anonymous implements "arrays"
   * CreationInfo imports a namespace - serialization concept.   Enables nesting.   Would like it clear that inheritence to support de-duplication, but don't want it mandatory.
   * Imports are going to be needed to reference outside the document.
   * Anonymous payload was to support an array without context between the elements.    Namespaces support roundtripping between formats.   Key is not forced to de-duplicate.   Consumers must be able to handle the presence deduplication.   Burden is on the SPDX library.
   * Proposal:  move namespaces and creation info out of logical model (to all serialization formats) to variations per format based on serializations.   William:  we need to make sure we can roundtrip the information between formats.  David: Suggest include namespace in SPDX Document.
   * Discussion of Namespaces and GUIDs, etc. ensued.   One use case is wanting namespace information ratained between parties and different formats. Counter-argument is to allow SPDX generators and consumers to change namespace maps for convenience or greater conciseness, without changing the integrity or independance of Elements. No decision was reached during the meeting.
   * Discussion of the use-case of payloads of SPDX without any Elements in them. The question was raised of who needs this facility. It was decided that all payloads of SPDX must have at least one Element, but this may not be possible to represent in the UML model.
   * Clarification that using 'arrays' to transmit multiple Elements is an artefact of the fact that serialised data must have an order. It is uncontroversial that Elements are peers of each other and are not inherently ordered.
   * Discussion of 'imports' of Elements by IRI. The question is raised of whether a declaration of 'definingDocument' allows the omission of Element imports that are implicit within that document. No decision was reached during the meeting.
