# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2023-12-19

## Attendees
* Kate Stewart
* Jeff Licquia
* Joshua Watt
* Rob Craig
* Karsten Klein
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Peter Monks
* Victor Lu
* Max Huber

### Regrets
* Alexios Zavras (I'll try to join later; otherwise happy holidays to all and have some rest!)
* Gary (at conference)
* Sean
* Bob

## Agenda
* Github issues/PRs 
* How many SBOM does the team want (Victor Lu)
* Challenges with licenseref (Karsten) and improvements in 3.0 (Peter). 
*  Web generation of specification
* Moving AnyLicenseInfo to core?

## Notes
*  Discussion of SPDX specification and model repos - no issues raised about using a 3.0 branch for spdx-spec for capturing the specification, from model. 
* Karsten went through how his tooling is working with Java library,  not seeing problems so far going to 3.0.
* Peter referenced that some of the concerns with LicenseRef-exceptions.
* Using only a fraction of the current specified SPDX
* In control all the steps, and the databases,  nice interaction between curation and automated. 
* Peter seeing Addition-ref on the right side of "WITH" expresssion,  which may help.   Concern is the term Addition could be ANY modification (not just addition), which will have learning curve for folks to get through the semantics. 
* Modifiers to licenses. 

## Review of Open PRs
* #579 Jeff to work through CI- Jeff to sync up with Max/Alexios. Jeff to weight in on and coordinate w/ Alexios/Max
* #577- Alexios approved. Language of artifacts discussed. Looks fine to Kate. Concerns? None raised, so documented in PR and merged. 
* #575 - Marked as approved. Note made in PR. Merged.
* #564 - Marked as approved. Note made in PR. Merged. Request for review- Joshua to review.
* #503 discussion but no conclusion,  missing others for critical mass..
* #583 opened by Joshua. Request for review noted.

## Victor Lu
* Trying to understand why single SBOM vs modular SBOMs, looking for working as fast as possible, easy to understand.
  * Tooling exists to merge documents,  expecting it to be easier in SPDX 3.0.
  * Kate explained why modular is going to work better for long run
  * Blog post needed - if not video explaining why modularity is key.
  * Discussion on only generate when you're going to analyze.    Possibly also import & export. 
  * Different views between consumption time vs. authoring time.  
  * Highlighting the point in time problem.   
  * Discussion on difference between Application vs. library dependencies.     Shipping application is a good point to generate wholistic SBOM.   
  * Karsten:  product creation,   shipping,   deployed - may all have different dependencies.     As build and delievered,  vs.  as deployed.   Changes the view you're taking.    What are you talking about in the end.  
  * Jeff:   Work groups should define how each of the uses cases should be handled.    App developer,  library developer, etc. 


## Decisions
*

## Action Items
* Discuss SBOM usage in the next meeting 
* Move SPDX 3 model repo into formal spec 
* Gather user feedback on License Refs & Exceptions changes 
* Work through and summarize tagged issues after the meeting

## Next SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-01-02
