# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2023-06-13

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Armin Tanzer
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neal
* Henk Birkholz
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximillian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Monks
* Rob Craig
* Sean Barnum
* Steve Winslow
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew


## Agenda

 * Licensing Profile
   * Use relationships instead of properties - align with Security Profiles? see Thomas comment on https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/254
   * Update from Friday’s meeting on license expression serializations – see decision in issue 372 comment and pull request 369 which implements the Friday decision plus all previous tech team decisions on the licensing profile.
* Serialization
   * Compare Sean’s proposal for CreationInfo serialization compaction approach: issue #357 and Proposal for “unbundled” or individual profile to only require CreationInfo when elements are not contained in a bundle: PR #343
* Usage and Build Profile review and meeting (early)
* Model review process with OMG


## Notes

* licensing values: relationships instead of properties
  - in SPDXv2, licensing values for Package/File/Snippet are values
  - in SPDXv3, since property values cannobe be added to exisitng Elements, you have to create new ones
  - switching to relationships may confuse people
  - declaredLicense is inherent to component; should be in the original Element definitions
  - Concern about relationships is multiple concludedLicenses
  - Declared licenses - some would be properties.  
  - AMENDS can be used to add new values (in a new Element) is possible. 
  - Sean worries about complexity of low granularity of Amends when just relationship used.
  - William:  Declared is on property itself,   Concluded may make more sense as a separate object, of the thing it's an analyis of.   
  - Maximillian - Found the following information is a relationship use cases.   May be a separate data structure.  Instead of making everything a relationship.  Declared is a property. 
 - there might be Analysis info and detectedLicenses in the future (v3.1), not for v3.0
 - consistency with Security profile, it uses relationships
 - properties are not data properties, but object properties
 - what kind of Relationships are we talking about? (two different models in the issue #254)
 - Steve strongly disagrees with different handling of declaredLicense and concludedLicense, due to complexity
 - Sean prefers Relationship from: Package to: License
 - Does anyone think that Declared *needs* to be a relationship?   No one spoke.
 - Does anyone think that Concluded *needs* to be a property?  Kate raised.
 - Steve and Sean thinks both need to be treated consistently between the two.
 - David Edelsohn queried the "truthiness" of the conclusion being made.
 - Looking for smaller meeting between Steve & Alexios, Thomas,  David E,  Sean to drive this to conclusion on which is the recommended path between the open questions. 
 
 * License Expressions Discussion wrapup
   - issue #372, PR #369
   - previous meeting decisions: have a string "expression", and move the expanded object tree to a separate profile
   - Thomas and Adolfo has concerns that the abstraction is moving too far away from where people are working today.    Want to see "run through JSON parser".   
   - Gary note separate profile is to hide this.   In 2.3 RDF has the license expression as a full graph; there is no string.
   - Default is just the string.  If you want the more complicated route - then it is the ExpandedLicense profile. 
   - Thomas is looking for license_extended being different from license profile.
   - It looks like a serialization issue. We could have a simple serialization to have the expression string as a value.
   
* Too many meetings; people lose track
  - maybe have them all in groups.io calendar that people can subscribe to? 
  - current list: https://github.com/spdx/meetings
  AI:  Rob to investigate options
