# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-03-07

## Attendees

* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Armin Tanzer
* Brandon Lumm
* David Edelsohn
* Dick Brooks
* Gary ONeall
* Henk Birkholz
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Kevin Cressman
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Maximilian Huber
* Meret Behrens
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Identities  (Sean & David to meet between meetings and report back)
* Migration Guide
* Question clarifying externalRef/externalId (Alexios, prompted by build profile)

## Notes

### Identities
* Summary from prior discussion
  * Current proposal with "Agent" class would work for most use cases
  * David preferred the term "Identity" rather than "Agent"
  * Want terminology that is somewhat intuitive is a group goal.
  * Discussion:  Safer concensus is to go with "Agent" at this time.   Identity layer will be revisited in future. 
     * Agent (concrete class),  Person, Organization, Tool,  SoftwareAgent.
     * Gary likes Tool associated with Creation information.   Treated differently in different contexts.
     * Note:  grey'd out identity. 
     * Sean cautions to not lock into PROV-O - want to be compatible, but in a broader context.
     * No change from the 2023-02-07 meeting decisions; Sean raised a concern that the wording of this original decision implied that the PROV-O definitions would be copied verbatim rather than defined analogously.
     
### Migration Guide
* Review of https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-olHRnX1CssUS67Psv_sAq9Vd-pc81HF8MM0hA7M0hg/edit#heading=h.uzojmh0kkl with a look to making sure that Rationales for any changes 
* Sean to provide rationale for ExternalRef section (before distributed wider than this groupP
* ContentType vs. MediaType - no perfect answer.    Looking to document  this in the issue.
* MimeType of file - which was changed to MediaType -  so Sean leaning to the official term, recommends MediaType.   property contentType of data type MediaType.   
* Henk - CT - Abreviation in the standards he sees, with data type of MediaType.   
* Could William or Henk document this in the issue for Armin (#93) - William to document. 
* Gary notes that lot of the translation is closed,   2.3 enumerations will need to be clarified. 
* Those present all agreed to use contentType as the field name, and MediaType as the value name, following IETF convention.
* PackageFileName - see issue #83.
    * Why changing from a property to a relationship. 
    * Sean to add a Rationale to this section. 
    * When package represented a folder,  there was some ambiguity. 
* Supplier 
    * Kate pushing back that this should be a property, not a relationship.
    * Dick - Supplier is the software developer/licensor - that's my interpretation.
    * William - vulnerabilities, etc. don't change over time with a package.
    * Gary - license can change even as content is identical.    Properties that are intrinsic.  Supplier can make decisions, that can impact. 
    * Sean - likes flexibility of relationship,  don't see how hang together if supplier changes,  not inheritently changes as supplier changes.    Either way we a representing as an object. 
    * Gary - key is to understand exactly where I got it from, even if other suppliers.   Would need to remove other suppliers.   Concern that its going to break other use cases.  
    * William - PackageOriginator: "If the package identified in the SPDX document originated from a different person or organization than identified as Package Supplier (see 7.5 above), this field identifies from where or whom the package originally came." 
    * Discussion ensued, refering to NTIA definition for the EO;  some concerns expressed about originator and supplier being conflated in the NTIA document.    Vendor terminology was mixed into the discussion.   Dick notes that this vendor/supplier ambiguity in our guidance for OMB M-22-18 preparation for software vendors and suppliers: https://energycentral.com/c/pip/advice-software-vendors-prepare-omb-m-22-18-requirements
    * Two use cases:  
         * Would like to know all known possible suppliers.  
         * Know where it came from is needed.  If multiple suppliers its hard to know where they actually got it from. 
    * Concern is relationship, how to support the second use case?   Breaking the use case that has been working for several years.  
    *  Sean - supplier is a provenancial part, rather than inherit part of package?   Can we codify the use case.  Reticent to make a decision on the call today.    If we can't solve it other ways, keep as is.
    * Gary - lengthy discussion on what an artifact is,  landed at content + metadata.  "artifactness";   reminder of the content + metadata that is inherent and immuatable to it. 
    * Dick would like to see supplier, vendor & distributor clarified - talking about graph.  Can all have relationships in the graph.   NTIA supplier concept to align to supplier. 
    * Sebastian are we making a decision this week?    Gary:  no.  This will be revisted a week later. 
    * Armin - Package supplier is not mandatory in 2.3. Making it so in 3.0 would raise the question of how to migrate this.
    * Nisha to do work on the diagrams to help express the concepts and options. 

* Ask - please review profiles being added as branches:   Build, AI, Licensing are all added.
   * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/91 for build profile as a PR
   * AI Profile branch: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/tree/ai-profile
