# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-03-14

## Attendees

* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Armin Tanzer
* Banula Kumarage
* Bob Martin
* Brian Fox
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Henk Birkholz
* Gary O'Neall
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Keith Zantow
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Maximilian Huber
* Meret Behrens
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Monks
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* CycloneDX/SPDX interoperability update
* Supplier property or relationship (or both)
* Reviewing SPDX 2.x to 3.x conversion document
* Update on serialisation meeting

## Notes

### CycloneDX/SPDX
  * Single identifier in CDX, SPDX has one primary identifier and secondary identifiers
  * 3.0 more compatible with CDX and addresses many of the incompatibilities
  * Existing translation efforts will cover most of the cases
  * Patrick will work with Phil about marketing description: where lossless and where different
  * OWASP minimum elements for SBOM in different situations: vulnerability, license, etc.
  * Planned degradation guide
  * Primary package purpose in 3.0 for compatibility with CDX component type

### Change supplier from a relationship to a property
  * What is a supplier?
  * Validation use case.
  * Multiple suppliers and don't know the single source of truth.
  * Supplier could be edited later.
  * Suppliers as identity/agent
  * Primary supplier?
  * Relationships for additional suppliers?
  
### SPDX 3.0 migration analysis

Discussion of completeness value on Relationships. It is asked what use cases would justify having a NOASSERTION on the To part of a relationship. The capability to have Relationships with unknown parts is something that was added in SPDX 2.2 after partial interest in this was expressed in an NTIA meeting.
