# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2023-07-11

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Armin TÃ¤nzer
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Holger Frydrych
* Jeff Schutt
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Kevin Cressman
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Monks
* Prasad 
* Rob Craig
* Rose Judge
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Lite and Build Profile sync with Japan team - meeting update
* Serialization meeting this week?
* License Relationship
* Review of outstanding PR's and Issues
* Schedule - when to target next RC
* Model "source"
* Use cases

## Notes
* SPDX Lite discussion - goal is to solidify PR 
  *  PR https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/350
  * Two issues being addressed
     *  mandatory vs. optional fields from core. 
     * restrict properties needed in core (may be related to lite serialization)
  * Structure follow on meeting with two perspectives.  w/ Alexios, Gary, Max, with Japan timezone friendly.
  * Nisha: Was it discussed to put all the fields into one document and how it ships.    Only fill out fields apply to their scope,  aggregation can happen via tooling.   Minimize view to SBOM scope. 
  * Kate: We have precedent from 2.2 & 2.3 as appendix.   
  * Gary: Default is to carry forward in 2.3 rather than adjust model.
  * David E: Recommends splitting meeting into a specific topic.   Gary agrees - next is to send out for Lite.

* Meeting Logistics
  * Serialization meeting - add alternate meeting time this week.    Use the time an hour earlier on Friday.

* Licensing Relationships
  * Missing Relationships Types - Concluded, Declared, Copyright?, Attribution?
  * How are the field names in REUSE going to be handled going forward?  Documentation needed to mapping back.   Annex H in SPDX 2.3 will need a conversion table.   Structure will differ.     Properties in REUSE for Lite Profile?  Annex H needs to have TagValue update - note version information is not in files. 
    * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/856 
  * Decisions should have volunteers to implement.  https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/352
  * Discuss this in steering meeting. 
  
* Outstanding Pull Requests and Issues --> next RCs
  * #377 - should be discussed in serialization.   David K. thinks it's possible to do, so DateTime should not go away, so PR should not be applied.  Consider closing,  some desire to hold open from Gary.  Consider punting to 3.1
      * General issue: how to handle string with pattern restrictions: new types or property restrictions? (SemVer, DateTime, ...). Current setup generates invalid RDF, something must change
  * #343 - Other compaction approach needs to replace this. 
  * #297 - This is a draft, and Armin's need to replace. 
  * #390 --> 2 PRs (gets rid of Namespace, and then adds it back)
  * #365 - requires a PR. 
  * #366 - Kate to look at it with Relationship analysis
  * #354 - Documentation needed
  * #347 - Agree to close, leave as string for "standard" 
  * #341 - Gary to create a PR,  need to determine if beyond CC-O;  CR 8 to be resolved
  * #332 - Security committee to decide tomorrow
  * #330 - Obsolete?   Armin to review and let Jeff know if it can't be closed. 
  * #328 - Namespace as going away.  Closing for now.  ref'd #411
  * #321 - Serialization schema being planned.   Closed. 
  * #320 - Starting an email thread to discuss how the generated HTML files can be sync'd with the editable files. AR Alexios
  * #228 - Need to resolve how to signal completeness.
  * #130 - Needs to be discussed between Sean & Gary
  * #90 - Hash vs. Checksum - William & Gary to discuss and come back with a recommendation.
  
  * Target to get rc2 in 2 weeks,  needing input from legal and SPDX-lite; for discussion and target release for week after. 
  
  * Where are use cases documented for 3.0?   Do different profile groups have documented in a place that is easy to find.    For the core we have use-cases many times... 
     * Alexios notes that https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/tree/main/serialization has use cases for pieces of information documented. Gary was rather asking for complete document cases.
  * Bob to send use cases from 3T to Gary so we can organize.  DONE: https://www.mitre.org/sites/default/files/2021-10/pr-19-01876-16-standardizing-sbom-within-the-sw-development-tooling-ecosystem.pdf   "9 scenarios"
  * Profile Landing pages:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1usdnSoBX9qrIozeYf9gKeaGytF0W-UjeVvNikvq06Ks/edit
  * Need to clarify when use SPDX Document vs. SBOM for security.   Serialization is discussiong per David.

## Decisions
*

## Action Items
* Schedule #365 for follow up meeting
* Schedule #345 - Package Verification Code for future tech call


## Next SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2023-07-18
