# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-05-02

## Attendees

* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* Francis Perron
* Jeff Schutt
* Ivana Avanasava
* Jennie Kaufmann
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Keith Zantow
* Kevin Cressman
* Meret Behrens
* Nisha Kumar
* Max Huber
* Peter Monks
* Bob Martin
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Steve Winslow
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholemew

## Agenda
- Release Candidate Readiness
   - Close on Outstanding PRs
   - Licensing profile: basic questions
   - Security Profile: Update from last Friday's workshop
- Adding more types to ExternalReference
- Introducing SoftwareArtifact- (Alexios)

## Notes
### Release Candidate
- publishing this coming weekend to line up with press release & workshop next Tuesday.
- daily sync meeting for outstanding issues/resolution?
### Outstanding PRs
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/229
   - waiting for 2nd review, else group concensus in meeting. 
   - Agreement to remove phase Document and then squash/merge.   
- Why is "run spec-parser / build (pull_request) Failing after 1m"
   - Failing since SEMVER has not been ported https://github.com/spdx/spec-parser/issues/47 (Meret working on fixing)
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/202
   - zvr - ok to merge and work from there?   blocking on release
   - iamwillbar to take point on resolving. 
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/236
  - zvr - Glossary needs each item to be standalone,  not blocking on release candidate 
  - adding in property for second domain & range.  DONE -- merged
- Relationships
   - who can commit to fast review for PR that merges, build, security, and reduced set? 
   - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/248
   - Amends - decision is to leave as is right now,  and description should capture replacing an old element with a new element. Copying form last week minutes: AMENDS relationship current semantics is replacing
   - Note - relationships can be elements now, so amending is possible.
   - William:  Any element can be amended.
   - Adolfo: VEx relationships have dates which let you know whixh one is the last one. 
   - Dick: Provide guidance about what to do when amends,  notifications? 
- Filling in TODODescriptions
   - looking for volunteers.   Blocking or not on release candidate?
   - Nisha & Adolfo to help fill in these descriptions. 

### Adding more types to ExternalReference 
https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/251 (leftover form last week's meeting)
   - some concern about renaming some of the existing refernces.   Ok for adding new.
   - pull request seen so it can be seen.

### -Security Profile: Update from last Friday's workshop

Thomas: Defects team had a 3 hour workshop last Friday to try to finalize the profile. One decision made was to switch to using relationship instead of plain elements, below examples of a CVSS 3.0 and a VEX statement. 
Latest model can be found at  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/tree/security-profile (note example has yet to be updated)

Welcome feedback from the group.
```
        { 
            "@type": "VulnerabilityCvssV3AssessmentRelationship",
            "@id": "urn:spdx.dev:cvssv3-1",
           "relationshipType":???
            "severity": "medium",
            "score": "6.8",
            "vector": "CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:N/A:N",
            "from": "urn:spdx.dev:cve-1", // [1..1]  the Vulnerability
            "to": "urn:product-acme-application",  // [1..1] must be the productRootElement in this security bundle or in the SBOM document
            "assessedElement": "urn:bingo-buffer-v2.2", // [0..1]  a package, file, snippet, relationship
// urn:product-acme-application -> runtimeDependency ->  urn:bingo-buffer-v2.2 / urn:product-acme-application -> devDependency ->  urn:bingo-buffer-v2.2 
            "externalReferences": [
                {
                    "@type": "ExternalReference",
                    "externalReferenceType": "securityAdvisory",
                    "locator": "https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2020-28498"
                }
            ]
        },

            { 
                "@type": "VulnerabilityVexAssessmentRelationship",
                "@id": "urn:spdx.dev:vex-3",
                "relationshipType": "affected",
                "from": "urn:spdx.dev:cve-1", // [1..1]
                "to": ["urn:product-acme-application"], //  [1..*]
                "assessedElement": ["urn:carol-compression-engine-3.1"], // [1..*]
                "actionStatement": "Upgrade to version 1.3 of ACME application.",
                "vexPublished": "2021-03-10T16:10:50Z",
                "vexLastUpdated": "2021-03-12T11:06:50Z"
            },
            {
                "@type": "relationship",
                "@id": "urn:spdx.dev:amend-relationship-1",
                "relationshipType": "amends",
                "from": "urn:spdx.dev:vex-3",
                "to": ["urn:spdx.dev:vex-2"]
                "comment": "Replaces previous VEX statement."
            },
```
- Thomas to update the model
- Jeff & Rose to update descriptions
- Expect to land tomorrow after meeting.   Looking for reviews and merging on Thursday.   
- Office hours sync up on Thursday - review for inclusion.
            
### - Status of Licensing Profile
- Introducing SoftwareArtifact- (Alexios)
   - Group agreement on the call to introduce this.
   - ContentIdentifier to move in as well.
   - Snippet name?  may be optional.  
   - Encoding - name shape has to be there. 
   - AI: Alexios to submit PRs
- Have modeled all the expressions as per SPDX 2.X
   - Package has a license - properties or relationships in SPDX 3.X

- Decision:  Based on discussion in call - both should be the same.
   - Declared  - based on tool/judgement, so different heuristics may decide differently.
   - Concluded - should be modeled as relationship to be coherent with Security profile?    
         - Conclusion may not appear in same timeframe. 
   - Properties are used for things that cannot be changed, and known in initial creation of an element. 
   - How do we code up the other side of the relationship?  Is the modeled license expression an element?   Syntax tree of licenses?   License would be an element with "expression" as a property on the License Element. 
   - SPDX license list could be set up as elements as other side of relationships.   
   - Relationships define when break apart what the software is, rather than assessment on it.
   
   - Conclusion:  Try licensing declared/concluded relationships with release candidate, and if there are serious issues, we back off to use properties for this release. 
   - AI:  Alexios to submit PRs,  Steve, Kate &  Thomas to review
   - Constraints - in Licensing profile, everything must have license,  how put constraints on relationship.   There would need to be a concluded license for each file & snippet, etc.  
   - How express mandatory relationship shape?   Sean - can be done,  need to see example here. 
   - Need to see how we can model to enforce constraint. 
```
{
    "@type": "licenseExpression",
    "@id": "urn:spdx.dev:license-1",
    "value": "Apache-2.0 AND MIT"
},
{
    "@type": "relationship",
    "@id": "urn:spdx.dev:license-relationship-1",
    "relationshipType": "concludedLicense",
    "from": "urn:spdx.dev:license-1",
    "to": ["urn:spdx.dev:acme-application-1.2"]
},
```

### - Any other blockers for Release Candidate?
- Extension profile - PR being added by Max.
   - Relates to element - see issue #47,  ticket needs to be updated.    Optional base class, extensible. 
   - AI:  Sean to add better description, and rules to apply to get canonical representation of the data. 
