# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-03-28

## Attendees

* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Banula Kumrage
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Karsten Klein
* Kevin Cressman
* Gary O'Neall
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Sean Barnum
* Peter Monks
* Rose Judge

## Agenda
* SPDX 3.0 - Alexios
* Sean & Gary  meet offline to address comments.    External Document Refs.
* Outstanding model PRs 
* Build profile

## Notes
* SPDX 3.0 - Open Chain  - Alexios
   * Kate to share presentation to Alexios and build up on it. 
   * OpenChain Webinar #50 - An Overview of SPDX 3.0  - Friday, 31 March 2023 07:00-08:00 UTC
https://zoom.us/j/4377592799
   

* Sean and Gary to review comments offline on Friday at 1pm EDT.
   * Kate and Dave K are also interested,  attend if possible. 
   
* GSOC 
   * Software Integration interest.
   * Looking for Mentors

* Pull Request Cleanup
* This is not final concensus on the terms,  it's just good enough to merge in as baseline from SPDX 2.3 to get us started.    Snippet, Files, Package - from 2.3.
   * 135 - reviewed, no issues.   Merged.
   * 121 - walked through 
      (TODO KS:  add in PR for Snippet, security use case)
      Software Purpose is not a field, but an enumeration type.   
      TODOdescriptions need to be fixed. 
      Armijn to fix software pupose types.  
      Reviewed and approved as good enough to iterate from. 
* From discussion,  agreed that SPDX 2.3 comes forward - Gary is ok to merge. 
   * Anything "Red" other than TODO, want wider review.  
   * Sean to compare to earlier work (Terminology?), once its merged. 
* Model Merge Guidelines 
   * PR fills in TODO or Blank - then only need 1 reviewer, and 1 week before merging. 
   * Ideal is to have 2 reviewers within a week.  Delete/change to existing text - needs 2 reviewers. 
   
* 72
   * This aligns with the model drawing...    if good or not is a different discussion. 
   * What is comment on creation information differnt from creation element.  It's "context" around the creation, rather than comment on the contents of "element".      Maps to SPDX v2 Creator comment.
   * Max agree with gary. This is an issue and JSON-LD and RDF can not fix that in serialization.

*63 - OBE by later one.  Closed.

* 57 - Approach for serialization,  is diverged from current serialization discussions.    This should be discussed in serializaiton group, and then proposed to this group for merging.  Logical element has a value that doesn't depend on other element.   How does a group of elements get serialized. 

* 45 - Sean to take a review.   Some concern with object oriented defns. 

* 139 - Alexios reviewed, there's a follow up task, but ok to merged.  Future improvement, would be to put updated artifacts on new branch. 

spec-parser/36 - cardinality restrictions shuold be in SHACL, not in pure OWL ontology 

Query we looked at:  "is:pr is:open base:main"

Next week:   build profile,  status update from profile, and relationship discussion.
