# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-05-30

## Attendees
* Adolfo Garica Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Armin Tanzer
* Bob Martin
* Dariush Griffin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neal
* Harshv Mahawar
* Henk Birkholz
* Jari Koivisto
* Jennie Kauffman
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Kevin Conner
* Kevin Cressman
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Maximilian Huber
* Peter Monks
* Rose Judge
* Sachin Bhakar
* Sean Barnum
* Steve Winslow
* Thomas Steenbergen

## Agenda

* Licensing Profile review with Steve & Alexios
* Security Profile updates with Rose, Jeff & Thomas
* Update from teams for the general meeting (in addition to Licensing and Security)
  * Build Profile
  * Implementers
  * Serialization and Canonicalisation
  * AI 
  * Data
  * Functional Safety
  * Hardware
  * Software as a Service
* CreationInfo Serialization Approach - "Unbundled" Profile and/or Serialization Compaction

## Notes

### Licensing Profile
* Pre-call agenda:
  * the primary focus will be discussing Alexios’s proposed reworking of the Licensing profile structure and classes at https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/297.
  * LicenseID type and formatting (closely related to Alexios’s draft PR): #205, #339
  * License fields as Relationships rather than Properties (also related to the draft rework PR): #254
  * Handling NONE and NOASSERTION for licenses and copyright text: #204, #207, #289, also relates to #71 and #76 and #211 and also #224 for good measure
  * Use relationships instead of properties - align with Security Profiles? see Thomas comment on https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/254
  * Implement a way to associate copyright holders to licenses https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/239
  
* Sean:  looking for a diagram how pieces for fit together.     How does an addition goes with a license? 
   * See 2.3 diagram from specification,  it's close with minor name change.
   * AnyLicenseInfo - top level class for any license expression, other than NONE & NOASSERTION

* Do all the fields in Element apply to licenses?  Prefixing changes?
   * identifiers in source code need to stay similar to 2.3.
   * All not relevant to license are optional
   * License list publishing will have canonical document of elements as well as web page
   * Who created the element metadata...  it's SPDX legal team. 
   * Custom licenses ... it's who summarized the license.
   * Verified_using:   would not apply
   * External_reference: pointer to something internal...  maybe to actual place where Apache has the license.
   * Steve generally understanding this direction. 
   * Before we finalize this, want to see what each property should be instantuated.
   * Mostly affects the license list publisher.   XML --> new model. 
   * Thomas likes the notion of using elements  - cause can use internally for extensions. 
   * Difference between License text vs. license info.... some complexity, but ok for internal.  Different on how it gets serialized. 
   ** Decision ** License will be a subclass of element. 
   * Gary - prefers to have internal names remain the same as 2.X;   Steve can generally align,  agreement to take this into the thread.   Naming should be a follow up separately.   Gary notes that naming bucket becomes a long conversation.   
   * Sean - requests a simple table for naming at this point- "current" - " proposed name" - Gary and Alexios agree this is a good ieda. 
   * Alexios - would like to merge something in, rather than renaming.    Kate would like to see existing names are starting point.   Sean wants to see table of names.    Concern about the ones where "License is removed".   Steve - merge to separate branch, and interate on the naming issues.    Note:  still have none & NOASSERTION discussion.   Next Tuesday we'll pick this up. 


### Security
- Ongoing discussion on A) the right modelling of the relationship, JSON vs. JSON-ld and B) linking to relationships
-  New Security-related ExternalReference types proposed in https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/352

* Discussion - how handle Assessment types -  Does every element have a class definition for parsing. 
* Linking to relationships - handling "assement types"  - currently subclassing relationship to create an assessment relationship.   Enriching relationshps to express security information.   Can't rely on type of class, as it will get lost in som of the serializations. 
* For serialization -  in 2.3 - have separate list for each type.   Duck typing?  to reverse engineer.   Add sparate property that has the type.    Gary feels it is solveable in serialization.   Make model it is correct, and don't add a seaparate property.   Array of "Relationships" and array of "Serrializations" - is it possible in serialize.    Sean - Type property doesn't have to be in the model.   Makes it weird between rdf & nonrdf.
* When rendering in JSON LD - creates an @type.   Need to create a property in other formats to have a property called type. 
* @type is either a class or a datatype.
* If we don't know how to serialize, needs to come back to core.   Proposal.
* Need to get through the model issues, and then move the serialization into main call. 
* Implementing in tool, and going back to model, serialization.   Core.  How handle serialize.   Security relies heaviliy from core.  "How to start an SPDX document"   need to see this progress. 

*  Armin opened a PR regarding serialization examples (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/355). Please respond with use cases you would like to see.

* Thomas making up mock files, and they are emailed around,  need to capture this in 

### Next Model Issues to be sorted:
* Licensing Information needs to be merged in.
* CreationInformation needs to be merged in (model, serialization or both?)
* Lite profile - needs lot of work (Evening meeting)
* Then we'll go to serializations 

### General meeting updates

*  Security Profile Update
- Team made lots of changes for the release candidate v1, now we are going thru use cases to validate model design. Security Profile depends for several use cases on Core  and here we running into issues as several items are still not fully defined. Becoming a blocker as the way the group works is to take real security data and they to create the JSON serialization for it and then discuss the pros/cons
- New Security-related ExternalReference types proposed in https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/352 to cover more use cases and better compatibility with CycloneDX
* Licensing
  - all info from SPDXv2 translated to SPDXv3
  - discussions about renaming
  - still opens: how to handle special NONE and NOASSERTION
* Serialization
  - RDF can be saved in different formats
  - SHACL is generated, so the model can specify validation rules for RDF data
  - still ongoing: "simple JSON" format (JSON-LD already there), generating json-schema from specification
* Software as a service - 2nd meeting - just getting started - creating use cases, reviewing use cases from CISA, will likely add some of our own
 * Build Profile
   - Profile Merged
   - Relationships being abstract from Build specific, to have paramaterized lifecycle phase. 
  * Implementers - Good workshop at open source summit - Gary will ask Rose for a summary for Thursday's ca..
  * AI 
    - Profile Merged.
    - Working through more examples
  * Data
    - Profile Merged
    - Dataset training usecases examles indicating relationshps need to be refined.
  * Functional Safety
     - Additional relationship requested for 3.0 to support prototyping for 3.1 
     - Talks given on how Requirement traceability can be handled.
  * Hardware
     - Significant interest on starting the discussions with CMU, as well as Chips Alliance members.

## Next Week
* Licensing Profile review with Steve & Alexios - the primary focus will be discussing Alexios’s proposed reworking of the Licensing profile structure and classes at https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/297.
  * LicenseID type and formatting (closely related to Alexios’s draft PR): #205, #339
  * License fields as Relationships rather than Properties (also related to the draft rework PR): #254
  * Handling NONE and NOASSERTION for licenses and copyright text: #204, #207, #289, also relates to #71 and #76 and #211 and also #224 for good measure
  * Use relationships instead of properties - align with Security Profiles? see Thomas comment on https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/254
  * Implement a way to associate copyright holders to licenses https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/239
* CreationInfo Serialization Approach - "Unbundled" Profile and/or Serialization Compaction
