# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-01-17 

## Attendees
* Adolofo Garcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Armin Tanzer
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Gopi Krishnan Rajbahadur
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Keith Zantow
* Kevin Cressman
* Maximillian Huber
* Michael Herzog
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Sen Hastings
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Profiles
  * profiles in spdx-3-model (Alexios) 
  * starting on Software?
  * move extensions to their own profile (Max) https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/47
* Identity Closure
* Next week: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/828

## Notes
* Adding info about the profiles in the repo
  * Two different approaches: 1. Create a PR with everything that will be added as a profile 2. Security profile has a separate branch and info is added there.
  * Alexios thinks 2. is easier as it looks like the main branch. After the info is added and discussion is finished then a PR can be created from this branch. By contrast, the PR is not as easy to view.
  * Gary: the PR is from a fork. Separate branches require permissions so the branches have to be created beforehand.
  * Max: would rather merge early into main branch.
  * William: permissions cannot be given on a branch/folder basis. PR to main more frequently, but if you are building consensus offline, then everything can be added at the end.
  * Sean: prefer separating things into folders and separate branches.
  * Henk: prefer branching over forking. Would like to keep local repository maintenance to a minimum. Integration hell. Perhaps rebase often.
   * Nisha:  Folks aren't good at keeping branches clean.   Will turn into a big mess, prefer to see it forking approach.  Smaller group contributing to fork. 
   * Gary: development is different from maintaining. Once a profile is fully developed then it makes sense to switch to a PR model. For changes to multiple profiles, PRs from forks will be better.
   * Kate: Any reason why we can't let individuals post to main, when they're ready. 
   Alexios: main shows what we agreed on and branches show what we are working on.
   * Ivana: votes for the first as it keeps main clean.
   * Alexios: discussions can  happen either on the PR to main or on the private fork. Would rather have it on the common repo.
   * Max: Suggests that we have a single development branch and main being the clean concensus.   
   * Sean: That lets us go force in a more managed fashion, and not restrict tempo
   * Alexios:  We can try this,   not all profiles go into their own directories.   
   * Sean: Development to main,  force resynch.
   * Ivana: Development branch will move faster than main, and main becomes hard to support. 
   * Alexios: If we have single development branch, how extract into main?
   * Max: Select by commits into main.   It's a common pattern, but don't have full solution. 
   * Gary: Let profiles teams work in separate branches. 
   * Sen: Do we want to have cadenced merge into main?   monthly? 
   * Alexios: When the people on profile thing they are ready, we discuss into main.  
   * Sean: Basically, I would support an approach using gitflow where the profiles are treated as features. https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow 
   * Kate: if we are doing the branch method, and if the changes are ready for review, give 2 days time before the SPDX tech meeting to give time for others to review.
   * Gary:  Profiles as features,  set up as branches, and apply to devel branch,  then formalize into main (it's the concensus).   
   * David: Devel is coordinated staging area, can cherry pick features from devel to main.   Devel provide broader view of what is emerging. 
   * Sean: Merge features when ready.
   * Alexios: Team working on different branch, then go into devel in this group,  then decision when develop is stable to go into main. 
   * Maximillian: Have a README - stating if it's WIP,   treat 'main' as 'develop'.
   * Decision:  Identify maintainer per profile,  when maintainer says ready,  at least 2 days before,  then group will approve/feedback.   This will hold until first reach, and then we will revisit how to do further updates.  
   * Gary: We need to add a contributing.md that will document this.   Rose & Gary to write contributing.md
   
* Software Profile:
    * Kate: Who is owner of the software profile?
       * William:  Kate volunteered to do a differences.
       * Kate: not sure that makes me the owner. 
    * Sebastican:  combination of elements, gives set that it supports. 
    * Alexios: If talking about packages, files, snippets - need Software + Core.
    * Gary: we might want purpose, be a function on artifact, rather in snippet, file & package.    This could apply in licensing as well.   
    * In future meeting,  discuss software artifact and common properties for software
    
* Container:   Container--> ContainerImage;   
   * Nisha:  We don't need to change it CISA meetings for SBOM types - possibly container is a process.
   * Sebastrian: Container for dynamicly running applications,  and use image to referectly static.
   * Adolfo: ContainerImage is long and cumberson, but can understand.
   * Nisha: What if container distributed in an ISO image?   Sebastian:  Archive image.
   * Decision:  leave as `container`, and understand it encompasses everything except running instances. 

* Discussion on Data profile, being under software or not.   General view is to keep it there for now.
* Sebastian:  Namespaces could differ from profiles.   Keep profiles tightly associated with use case, and namespace something that end users shouldn't have to consider.   Gary: conformance points?
* Bob: How does someone decide what they're going to support.   Make use of parts of this. 
* Gary:  Profile today is representing conforming points, namespace & organization.

* Extension proposal described. Recommended to present again at the beginning of future meeting so that other participants can comment.
