# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-06-06

## Attendees
* Adolfo Garica Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Armin Tanzer
* Bob Martin
* Dariush Griffin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neal
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Keith Zantow
* Kevin Conner
* Kevin Cressman
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Monks
* Rose Judge
* Steve Winslow
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda

* Licensing Profile review
* Serialization

## Notes

### Licensing Profile
* Pre-call agenda:
  * LicenseID type and formatting (closely related to Alexios’s draft PR): #205, #339
  * License fields as Relationships rather than Properties (also related to the draft rework PR): #254
  * Handling NONE and NOASSERTION for licenses and copyright text: #204, #207, #289, also relates to #71 and #76 and #211 and also #224 for good measure
     * current model does not support having NONE and NOASSERTION in license expression.
     * discussion from Kate & Gary that we need this, and Steve wants to circle back with legal team.
     * Alexios notes that copyright has NONE and NOASSERTION and this will need to be handled differently
     * Max additional to NONE and NOASSERTION there is also null, which we should keep in mind.  
     * Kate the default in 2.X  is to assume NOASSERTION. 
     * Gary to support NONE & NOASSERTION in expressions.
     * Max: licensing profile should be made mandatory, and if not present, it is NOASSERTION.
     * Alexios: Class Heirarchy does not match the grammar - due to not able to handle both "OR LATER" and "WITH" in SPDX license expressions. 
     * Next steps: adjust model that supports it, and then get input from Legal team
     * License expression syntax in specification
     * Decision:  Class heirarchy may allow for license constructs, that are not considered valid based on other rules (License expression syntax rules appendix)
     * Gary:  We'll see if we can handle in SHACL shapes, but we will definitiely make a point of documenting.
     * Next steps:  Alexios to draft an abstract model to handle the agreement. 
* Discussion of Inheritance in Licensing model.     Modeling "Licensing Information", not just expressions. 
   * DECISION:  SingleLicense class will not be used, moving Licenses under the LicenseInfo class. Addition will be direct subclass of Element.
   * Alexios: Recommend also have string representation of license expressions, with policy decisions on top to enable a value of element or string
   * Support from Kate, Max & Thomas.   Gary suggesting "Expression String"  be introduced.
   * Thomas: Just keep it a string - only use for validation. 
   * Next steps:  Gary to call a meeting with Alexios, David & Steve and explore this, then come back with recommendation to the wider group. 

=== Below licensing topics were moved to next week meeting as Steve had to drop early ====

  * Use relationships instead of properties - align with Security Profiles? see Thomas comment on https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/254
  * Implement a way to associate copyright holders to licenses https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/239
  
==================================================================================

### Serialization subteam
* new meeting time - Thursdays, two hours later (same slot as General meeting)
* List of use cases -- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/364
   * Serialization - decided wanted use cases for examples that show elements doing certain things. 
   * Readme file - first pass,  expecting to be a living document.
   * Different subdirectories of same thing - building up from simple to more complex. 
   * Has been merged.   Want to see more adding PRs for Security,  use cases cover core and software at this point. 
   * Add use case of what you want to see serialized (concrete class type examples), and then we'll expand on the how to do it. 
   
* Logical values and use case examples -- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/370
   * Defines what the logical value could be like;  Max has concerned it adds a new IDL, JSON should suffice for this and drop a layer of abstraction, rather than introducing a new file format.   .logval are not serialized data.
   * Next Step:  Discussion for Serialization call to determine if logical value is going to be needed.
   * Next Step: Request is to add just the JSON examples only - right after meeting - David agrees.
   
*  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/353 - of interest to those doing modeling (examples and process tutorials).  Superceded from user perspective by 370.   William,  353 planning to have generated site for implementers, and will evolve how it looks.
   * David to update 353 to current model, and then William and Alexios to review and we merge in.

### Security

- Review and merge https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/352
  - Jeff and Rose to re-review and Kate to merge 
  

- TODOs : https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/367
- William to give folks a demo of documentation next week.
