#SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-01-10

## Attendees
* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Berkholz
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Joshua Watt
* Keith Zantow
* Kate Stewart
* Kevin Cressman
* Matt Roberts
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Sen Hastings
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Docfest Update
* Identity
* Security Update

## Notes
* Docfest update 
   * Rose has Package Verification Code Update PR request that will be submitted,  looking forward to discussing next week. 
   
* Identity discussion
   * Want to reflect variants that are there (Sentience,  Simplification.)
   * Sean: Believes that this current diagram will meet concensus.   Would like to see examples, and test validity.
   * David K:  What does it look like for simple email account?   William:  Element has external identifiers, that can be used for lighter weight stuff.   Example is email address,  authority is email server.  
   * Identifier should be string vs. IRI?  (ie. phone number) - in IANA there is a way to be represent 
   * Thomas: concerned about bloat.  Security profile, only looking at Person for now.   
      * William:  If frequent enough we can promote something like email to Identity. 
      * Sean: Don't think this is a bloat issue, because they are objects.   Flexibility of keeping it general will have value. 
      * William: SBOM with 1000 NPMs, 1000s of individuals.     Thomas:  NPM ecosystem problem, about 200 email addresses per SBOM.   William:  Either identity field, or serialization option.   Both are possible.   Thomas: Short hand for external reference identifiers.   Short hand method for all of them, might make sense.  
      * TODO:   Text examples on diagram need to be updated. 
      * Thomas:  Type can probably be omitted via serialization.   When its clear from value.
      * William:  Serializaiton seems the right place to do this. 
      * David K:  Agree with external identifier approach and email address.   Email will need to change IRI to string. 
      * Sean: String makes more sense,  which could be non-IRI structures.    Can tie to specific type to string.
      * Jeff:  IRI supports more formalization, which is will help automation.
   * Sebastian:  Want to figure how data can be removed from graph without upsetting relationships (ie. GDPR wanting to remove phone number)   Don't have answer for this.   William: possible by creating a  new element, and recreating relationships to refer to prior.  If it was a legitimate need of system.  Difficult but possible.   William says should have guidance in spec about this in immutability, along the lines of "Please keep in mind, legislation like GDPR, and minimize the data contained in the document"  Sebastian: "Personal information shouldn't cross organization boundaries"
  * Dick: +1 on String,  Leverage IANA types though, please.   see tel URI is registered by IANA: https://www.iana.org/assignments/uri-schemes/uri-schemes.xhtml  Request to include. 
  * Henk:  Emails are also IRIs.
  * Gary, a couple of threads in chat - side discussion about using jscontact is more extensible but still in draft: https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-calext-jscontact-04.html or vcard to represent information.  Linking to it might make sense.   May be a solution like this..    
  * David: More general is fine.  But the minimum is that an identity cannot exist without an identity manager.
  * William: +1 Gary, I've been there as well, mapping external identifier types to what the authority is makes sense
  * Adolfo: https://schema.org/author ?
   * William:  Don't think we'll be able to capture one standard that has all the pieces. 
   * Maximillian: If we reference a complex set of external specs. Do I need to support them as an implementer? What semantics do I need to adhere? When checking for validity, what do I need to check? Purl already pulled in another standard with its own semantics and complicates implementation and adoption.
  * Henk:  Gitoid & SWHID have URI scheme, so can reference them now.   
  * Gary:  Overlapping identifier schemes, will need to be dealt with.   Also ambiguous with PERL.
  * Dick: IANA also covers OID's
  * David:  Still need to have sentient vs. non - how represent bots that have their own identity.  Sean: Consider a bot as a tool.   AI Tool is a "what" not a "who".  David:  process has its own individual name.  Chrome example;  chrome is tool, vs. chome with identity XXX identified with this signature. 
  * Sebastian: would like to point out use cases for identity - comparision (2 packages have same creator),  extraction(pull out email), storage (just holding) - would like to see examples.    William & Sean - do believe all 3 are coverd.  Sean: agree, also supports aggregation of supergraph.    William:  suggest that try to represent examples - if can show what can't describe. 
  * Tentative Decision:  "We'll go forward that this version of model, and unless there is a blocker from examples, we'll revisit other issues after 3.0"   
  * Nisha: how represent a bot on this.  A bot is an account that acts on behalf of a person. 
    * Sean: The account part is done by identity, identifier of account.   
    * Nisha:  User ACLs are defined around this, needs to be an entity, not a person or organization.   Can use identity to describe?   Sean:  Yes, should be able to know, without knowing below using entity.
    * David K:  Tools is a red herring,  tools are names of software that people are using.   PKI credentials that area issues to people and non person entities,  can be added to access lists.   Active process that has it's own identity.   Process with valid credential, should be an identity.   Gary & William are going with adding Process being added under identity.   Sean: concern about process under identity.   If not need as a separate thing.  For the U.S. Government, an NPE has a certificate and can be added to access lists.  It is a first-class identity just like a person.
    * David E: Recommend stepping back, and look at the information that someone would want.   Would it be useful to know its a process or not,   if its a tool or not.  How does the differentiated element or specific element subclass / name provide useful information to the SBOM recipient?
    * Sean:  Tool, Identity, Process - all under Entity.
    * Gary:  Suggest what we have good enough for now, and extend and add subclasses without breaking with compatibility.   Revisit 3.1 for bot use case. 
  *  ** Decision:  "We'll go forward that this version of model, and unless there is a blocker from examples, we'll revisit other issues after 3.0"  ** 
  * Kevin:  Would a mail lilst work?   William: address email list as identity. 
         
  * Vulnerability Profile
  * Thomas went through model diagram he had for vulnerability pofile.   Note:  existing references should be preserved. 
  * Some things are in parent classes in core, just reusing, others are explicit added.   Leveraging a lot of fields from core, just add a couple of fields and enumerations/categorizations
  * Has full coverage for Art Manion's draft of VEX document. 
  * We should be able to extend with this model as new ways;  
  * Dick:  VEX material looks premature - so software assurance group would work.  Security advisories, and NIST supported in the handbook.   CSAF is different.
  * Henk:  Minimum requirements for VEX has been heavily updated.   Thomas: Its just a categorization and we can change. 
  * Adolfo:  Willing to look at VEX document & Thomas' examples.    Minimum needed to be able to have, and willing to do a review pass.   Avoiding breaking model of how it supposed to work. 
  * William: 
    * I'd use the externalIdentifiers instead of vulnerabilityId because you need to know the authority that the vulnerability id belongs to.
    * I'm very reluctant to have modified date because elements are immutable, partially reluctant to having withdrawn in there. I'd use a separate element for lifecycle events related to the vulnerability. Otherwise the graph identity of the vulnerability will change too frequently.
  * Dick: Need to be careful when working with Vex (work in progress) - need to be precise so we know how to process the material - need to know how to process the statements
  * Review of mapping table - mapping table was built since CDX was release while VEX was in progress
  * Use the mapping table from the Minimyum Requirements for VEX
  * Adolfo: CISA and CDX are VEX implemenations, SPDX will be another.  Official VEX labels will match the CISA labels - mapping table will allow you to translate to the existing CDX labels
  * Adolfo: Document is nearly finalized, should be out next week - still open for comment, but don't expect much change - the contentious issue have been resolved
  * Proposal to add Product from security group - should be in core
  * Comment from William in chat: Products can be expressed with Package today, we'd need to work out what value/confusion might arise from splitting
  * Advisory relationship to be used between vulnerability and package (and product)
  * Can use amends relationship to update vulnerability information
