# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-02-07

## Attendees

* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Karsten Klein
* Kevin Cressman
* Kouloum
* Matt Roberts
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Monks
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Identity
* Repository permissions / access

## Notes

### License profile review

* Migrate from v2 to v3
* Review if translation / conversion correct?
* In model repository: <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/76>
* Issue in repository, review in RDF schema and reverse engineer for representation in .md file

### Discussion of RDF support in SPDX

It is asked how many users of RDF there are for SPDX 2.x.
Gary reports that there a relatively small group of users compared to tag-value, but that the user base is very responsive on GitHub.

Discussion of which serialisation format RDF represents - Turtle, RDF/XML, JSON-LD etc.
It is explained that SPDX supports RDF triples, without regard to which RDF-specific serialisation format is used.

Discussion of examples of SPDX in RDF Turtle format.
Gary will look into uploading these to the [`spdx/spdx-examples`](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples) GitHub repository.

### Identity model

Last meeting finished without decision about the Identity model.
Maximilian proposed last meeting about adding a 'Created Using' field in addition to 'Created By' to distinguish tools (Artefacts) from agents (Persons, Organisations, SoftwareAgents etc.).
Sean raised concerns about the ability to represent agents where their true identity is not yet known.

Discussion of the scenario of a party having an email address, but not knowing whether it is controlled by a person, organisation or software agent.
David Kemp points out that the existence of Person, Organisation and SoftwareAgent as direct subclasses of Identity allows the addition of Created Using to fully differentiate 'who's from 'what's.

Discussion of the provenance chain for consumers of SPDX information.
Nisha points out that this is valuable supply chain information, but that SPDX data producers may be ambivalent to whether or not this information is present.

Sean points out that adding Created Using might entail changing Created By to an optional property, as only the tool used to create the Element might be known and the Identity that created the Element might not be known.

Some members present disputed that SoftwareAgents should be represented by Identities.

Sebastian vouched for the W3C Provenance specification terminology and structure: <https://www.w3.org/TR/prov-o/>

Sean warned that the PROV-O is only defined in the context of provenance data and isn't intended to be used to describe natural persons outside of their role as 'doing' agents.
Sebastian agreed, and believes that this smaller scope is sufficient for the SPDX community's use-cases for SPDX 3.0.

Discussion of whether non-provenance uses of Identities is valuable for SPDX 3.0.
General feeling was that this is not immediately important for SPDX.

Sean requested that it be recorded that he is disappointed that the proposal loses an extra layer of abstraction that supports non-provenance use-cases, however does not object to this proposal on those grounds alone.

The proposal:

> Agent is a concrete Element class.
> 
> Agent has three concrete Element subclasses:
>
>   - Organisation
>   - Person
>   - SoftwareAgent
>
> The definitions of Agent, Organisation, Person and SoftwareAgent are parallel to the definitions in the W3C PROV-O specification.
>
> OriginatedBy and CreatedBy fields have a type of pointer to one or more Agent Elements.
>
> Tool is a concrete Element class.
>
> CreatedUsing fields have a type of pointer to one or more Tool Elements.
>
> It may be decided that it will be possible for Tools to be linked to Artefacts using Relationships in SPDX 3.0 or a future version.

Karsten raised the concern that this does not facilitate the use of 'on behalf of' relationships.

**There was consensus of those present for this proposal.**

Discussion of the cardinality of CreatedBy and CreatedUsing fields on Element.

It was proposed that:

- CreatedBy has a cardinality of `1..*`
- CreatedUsing has a cardinality of `0..*` (superseding earlier proposal)

**There was consensus of those present for this proposal.**
