# SPDX Technical Team Meeting 2023-03-21

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Armin Tanzer
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary ONeall
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jennie Kauffman
* Jim Hutchinson
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Keith Zantow
* Kevin Cressman
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Monks
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane

## Agenda
* Close on supplier property – it was discussed on last week’s call, but we didn’t capture the conclusion in the minutes.  I’ve documented the proposal from last week’s call in the Github issue: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/113
* Create a plan for the open PR’s – there’s a lot of good contributions.  I’ve reviewed most them, but I haven’t seen any additional reviews.  Should I just merge them or should we get an additional review before merging?
* Update from the Serialization meetings
* Identifiers (David K)

## Notes
### Supplier Property 
* See: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/113 
   * **Decision** in the call that what is recorded in the minutes matches what was discussed.   Others on the call that weren't on the call last week were fine with the proposal as well. 
add back the suppliedBy property with a range of Agent cardinality 0..1 (note: a future provenance / pedigree profile may further restrict this to cardinality 1). The semantics of the suppliedBy property would be the supplier of the package actually used in the SBOM, i.e.: where did a really get this package from?
rename the suppliedBy relationship to "availableFrom" who's to property would point to one or more Agents. These Agents would represent additional suppliers where the package is available.

### Pull requests
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pulls  Kate to take a pass through ones that Gary has reviewed for documentation, and if ok,  then fine to merge.  
   * 8 Description starting points need to be merged first. 
* AI profile PRs - Max needs to see context,  will send out how to filter.  
** filter for PRs targeting main: is:pr is:open base:main 
* On profile for Build PR - team works separately on profile, then merge the PR. 
* Build PR branch is pretty clean -  homework:  see if any of the relationships can be combined with existing ones. 

### Serialization update
* See email from David.   Sean's slides reviewed.  Alexios example of GPS coordinate worked through.
* Maximillian - some concern over Comment in JSON.     Gary notes there are some RDF ways to handle.
* Gary - would like to confirm the other formats can be translated to/from canonical format?   David - Yes. 
* Tag/Value - Max - Proposal to replace Tag/Value with YAML
* Kate: Concern about hard drop of tag value will cause issues with adoption and concern in the community
* Peter: consider Extensible Data Notation (EDN): https://github.com/edn-format/edn in future
* Gary - Tag/Value is the most used format today.   Complexity of model will make it 
* Dick - prefer to see a gentle migration as well. 
* Example of Name being discussed. 
* Would it be possible to drop some functionality in T/V - subset?  Reluctance due to interoperability.
* Dick: Agree we need a "gentle migration"
* T/V:  Package & files  - may need to become explicit relationships. 
* Nisha: changing/evolving the T/V format to suit SPDX 3.0.
* Gary:  would like to see not to make it any more comlicated that 2.X today. 
* Keith:  Tag Value is one of the most challenging things to deal with.  As a maintainer of the tools-golang, there are _still_ problems
* Gary to show example of YAML; 
* Sebastian said that they are looking at RDF Turtle, YAML & TOML as candidates to be added as the human-readable format for 3.0.

## SPDX Examples Repo
* These need to be updated to SPDX 2.3 - or be explict it's 2.2.    
* Nisha will to do use case #7 - and give updated version
* Examples are in SPDX folder named examples
* Gary will update the README in the Examples repo to point to the SPDX spec for the canonical example
* Nisha will rename the folders to be named 2.2,  then we'll migrate versions to be 2.3 (request for adding in PackagePurpose)

## 3.0 Release Criteria
* Model  - Release Candiate
  *  no open issues or pull requests
  * New profiles have been merged

* Serialization - Release Candiate of Specification when JSON serialization.
  * cross polinization?  
  * JSON serialization & schema - created and agreed to be "sensible".     OWL code --> ?  --> JSON Schema
  * Gary to consider JSON Abstract Data Notation - https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-jadn
  * https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-jadn/blob/published/jadn-v1.0-cs01.md
  * Dick: REA is planning to develop parsers for specific profiles. We are not planning to write a parser for all permutations of the SPDX "dictionary" of terms. We will support multiple formats within each supported profile

* Other serializations be added, after JSON done. 
  * Move on to other serializations and populate.
  * We need to get back to all the others.   

- "SPDX 3.0" is when no open issues and pull requests for any of the supported serializations. 

- Action Kate :  Add 3.1 tag after the release candidate for model is available. 

- David: The "model" folder in spdx-3-model has markdown definitions of each type.  Those definitions have much of what is necessary to create JADN, and a few additional properties would make it complete.

- Risk assessment profile?   OMB is profile.    NTIA minimum is part of Core.

* Proposal from David - adding in Identifier email to Agent class.    Cardinality?   some discussion - tending towards optional as we have name.    Email could be optional..many.    Other options are - URL for open source contact.   Phone numbers can be URI.    Looking for this to be MIME type? 
   * The intent of "email" wasn't to be a contact point, but to be any "local-ID:org-ID" pair - a unique identifier for the agent.  URI RFC3986 section 3.2 calls it "userinfo@host".  Microsoft calls it "user principal name: "A UPN consists of a prefix (user account name) and a suffix (DNS domain name). The prefix joins the suffix using the "@" symbol."
   * Unique identifier, not necessarily email contact.  Blockchain Wallet ID might also be valid?

* Sebastian:  Creation information should not be a class,  discussion with Gary.   Concern about structures being anonymous.   Gary points out that class can be anonymous in RDF, do not need to flatten it out.    


## Future
Close on checksum vs hash and record it in the minutes
Defects group update request (also work in LF/SPDX stands with regard to OpenSSF and OpenVEX - has LF/SPDX endorsed OpenVEX  as a security profile? )  - Thomas - and colead. 
Build profile merging - Nisha, Joshua, Brandon. 
