# SPDX Tech Meeting 2024-02-13

## Attendees
* Maximillian Huber
* Jory Burson (Linux Foundation)
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Nisha Kumar
* Matt Rutkowski
* Jeff Licquia
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Karsten Klein
* Jeff Schutt
* David Edelsohn
* Mark Atwood
* Tim Bird
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall

### Regrets
* Gary, Alexios, Sean, Bob

## Agenda
* Resolve content identifier.
* Publishing Document
* More @context thoughts ~ Joshua Watt
* Package Verification Code Exclusion - Nisha Kumar
* Protocol buffers for SPDX? - Nisha Kumar
* State on SHACL generation?   roadmap on this?

## Notes
### Generating .pdf
* Jeff is investigating mkdocs working for the .pdf;  will generate and circulate. 
* Old spec parser was able to generate SHACL;  new one is having issues.    Jeff L. suggests doing a port from the orignal one, and moving it over and get working in new framework.  Still task.    Agreement for the folk that let's move forward with this.  
* Looking for reviews from Alexios at a minimum, if he doesn't have a better solution. 

### Content Identifier.
* Jeff S.,  Gary, Alexios,  Sean - need to meet and get this sorted.    Some may defer to future release.

### @context
* Joshua - concerns about having extensions with @context being mandatory;  esp. with having to go out to the internet.  Ideal is to be able to write scripts in an hour.  Will send it out by email. 

### Package Verification Code 
* Is a verification method - still needs to be documented in the model.
* Does anyone object to having a named list,  like we have done it in 2.3.    Modeling this needs to be determined.   Sticking is how to include in model.    Subclass Hash algorithm;  property will need to be model into this.   Nisha is in favor of adding "File Exclusions" properties.   Jeff has ideas of creating a subclass on package verification code.    See PR# 599.  Jeff will do a review.  Jeff will let Kate know by end of day.   Nisha is good with this.   

### Outstanding PRs against https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pulls
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/634 - General approval on the call, however Maxmillian noted that spec-parser needs to be updated to catch up.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/633 - this has been tagged 3.1
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/632 - README has been updated; reviews were approved on the call and Ok'd to merge into main
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/631 - approvals were requested on the call; Maximillian raised the concern that there may be some inconsistency and will investigate the issue further.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/629 - commit suggestions were reviewed on the call; minor discussion ensued about the use of emptylist and summary discussion was added to the PR.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/618 - Discussion summarized on GitHub issue; unclear why this feature is needed. Although the group noted reservations, it was agreed and merged.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pulls/611 - Jeff will be speaking with Alexios, Gary and Sean on this issue
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pulls/610 - similar to above
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pulls/602 - similar to above
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pulls/605 - requires input from Jeff L.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pulls/599 - this had been approved however Jeff S. wanted to review. The PR was errantly merged, Jeff will make a comment if it requires revert.
Other issues were briefly highlighted, but not discussed, as they were tagged 3.1.

Kate asked if Matt R, has been looking at using 3.0 now.   Dependency Track for importing SPDX 3.0.
Matt R. requested a link to the canonical JSON Schema version. Maximillian noted that this is generated from JSON-LD, hosted here https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/tree/gh-pages. Maximillian further noted that the main implementation is SHACL and described some of the reasons it was selected. Matt will do some exploration to determine what the path might look like for import/export. The group will also share packages and other resources:
* https://github.com/oxigraph/oxigraph (Rust)
* https://crates.io/crates/shacl_ast/0.0.7 (Rust)
* https://github.com/oxigraph/rio (Rust)
* https://jena.apache.org/ (Java)
* https://github.com/TopQuadrant/shacl (Java)
    
Gary, having joined late, noted that he will take a pass at updating the migration documentation at his earliest convienence. Gary will also prioritize @content, noassertions, and StandardName and related discussions.

Kate provided a brief summary of feedback from the ASIA Tech Team Meeting on 2024-02-12 (see notes). Kate also noted that the goal for RC2 is end of this week. Gary highlighted a few issues from other repositories that also needed to be closed out (see "punch list" https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/622). Gary requested that Nisha review https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/880 and Kate review https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/879. A second reviewer was also requested for https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/878. 

Nisha shared a link to the repository of example models (note that these have not yet been validated) https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/tree/main/serialization

### Protocol buffers for SPDX
Deferred to a later meeting.
