# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-03-26

## Attendees
- Kate Stewart
- Robert Martin
- Jeff Licquia
- Joshua Watt
- Peter Monks
- Matt Rutkowski
- Timothy Gillespie
- Jory Burson (Linux Foundation)
- Michael Loya
- Maximilian Huber
- Karsten Klein
- Dick Brooks
- Alexios Zavras

## Agenda
- Review outstanding model issues and pull requests

## Potential Discussion topics
- Spec share;  
- SPDX 3.0 announcements;  OMG update;  
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/675 - AI (any concerns prior to merge)?   and https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/671
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/673 - dropping SPDXID?   Comment on https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/407?

## Notes
- Generated Specification Status:  
    - Jeff:  We have RC2 spec - it changes on spec itself, but we can set up to build on model changes.   Manual changes to trigger still work in progress.  Site: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0-RC2, drop-down available for latest 3.0 as well.
   - spec to documentation page - rdf.spdx.org;  S3 side discussions ongoing with Gary. 
   - Joshua: JSON schema will need to be added.   Need to add to CI - need JSON LD context, Ontology, ??  --> need to go to canonical URLs that won't move for the pieces.   Ontology needs to be fixed. 
   - Joshua will send Jeff a PR to generate the additional material. 
   - Pulls from head of main currently. 
   - Jeff will be providing documentation on head of spec parser to build.   Joshua suggests it may be possible to automate with tag.
   - Extra links:
       - PDF: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0-RC2/pdf/combined.pdf
       - Ontology/model files are in https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0-RC2/model (example link: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0-RC2/model/ontology.rdf.ttl)
- Evolution on CDX properties, in https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/672 - weigh in if interested.

- OMG Review
   - Does work at F2F meetings.   Member meeting;  Architecture board met on monday & Thursday.
   - They have given feedback to hundreds of specs.   We sent the RC2 spec to them 5 weeks ago.   Website spec was checked by adding physical pages;   we'll need to update the history section a bit in final version.   The architecture board was looking for acronyms to be explained,  some descriptions are too light weight.   Suggestion is to look through all descriptions, and expand them further.    Some of the things defined are in other ISO skpecifications, so we may want to review, and make use of those definitions. 
   - Two biggest concerns points:  Ontology is there, and it needs to be machine parseable.   Turtle/RDF file was used - was fixed quickly.   Added acronyms between monday and Thursday.    Was approved on Thursday.
   - Now on OMG web site as request for comment - please add to SPDX project issues/trackers.   Please fix in linux foundation processes.   As long as nothing that can't be addressed in finalization task force, we'll be good.
   - Next member meeting in June, and make sure are addressable.   RFC version, and can be addressed.   Bring together,  and an actual final spec come out.    Know revs since RC2 version for OMG. 
   - Need to produce the format as ISO standard - from web version as well. 
   - Jeff asks for specifications for exactly what need,  Bob has LATEX based markdown, and let them working about formating.  Bob to follow up on this.   Couple sections missing;   Bob to send to Jeff things to fold back in.   Jory says that https://www.metanorma.org/author/iso/.  Architecture board is trying to be accomodating - ie. using TRTL rather than MOF.
   - Kate want to see if we can say 3.0 is out at OSS NA.   Bob thinks that that should be possible.   RDF & schemas should be locked though.    
   - Jory indicates it makes sense, but wants to do some backgrounding.  AI: Kate, Bob, Jory to synchronize.   
   - Bob making notes for punchlist of what has to be typed where. 
   
- Package -  Joshua has indicated that serialization now no longer requires prefixing this. 
   - dataset_DatasetPackage
   - dataset_Package
   
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/673 - dropping SPDXID?
  - spdxId is not a property like everything else; including it is breaking spec parsing tool and some would like to remove it as it is not 'pure model'. Bob suggested that Gary, Alexios, Sean and others who were not present need to be part of the discussion as there is a lot of past support for including it. The discussion was tabled in order to bring those people into the conversation; The issue is time sensitive and Joshua suggested that everyone attend the Serialization meeting on Thursday.  
  
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/672
  - Matt did not have an update or information on this PR in particular. Kate requested that someone from the Cyclone community find time to sync. 
  
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/674
  - Joshua reported that this has been discussed in the serialization group and conversation needs to continue with Sean. 

- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/629 and https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/623
  - These two issues will need to be prioritized in the next week.
  
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/611
  - This may be a stale issue, but Sean and Alexios will need to confirm. Alexios will fix up conflicts but the group will try to resolve next week.

- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/609
  - This PR was moved to the 3.1 release. Alexios will clean up the PR so that it can be merged.
  
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/605
  - Joshua suggested that this is probaby still relevant and will take care of closing this out. 
  
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/661
  - It was agreed that this decision can stand and the PR was merged. 

## Decisions
- Going forward with SPDX 3.0 at OSS NA. 

## Action Items
- Serialization meeting to be added to Groups.io

## Next SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-04-02
