# SPDX Tech Meeting 2024-03-12

## Attendees
- Mark Atwood (Amazon.com, Inc)
- Robert Martin
- Tim Miller
- Joshua Watt
- Nobuyuki Tanaka
- Jeff Licquia
- Maximillian Huber
- Venkat Ramakrishnan
- Jory Burson (Linux Foundation)
- Gary O'Neall
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Victor Lu
- Matt Rutkowski
- David Edelsohn

## Agenda
- Handling IDs in JSON serialization - see discussion in https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-serialization-prototype-playground/pull/29
- Broaden discussion of lifecycle beyond just software (LifecycleScopedRelationship & LifecycleScopedRelationship)

### Potential Discussion topics
- Issue 630: Consider extensibility for package "file" types
- Integrity Method related issues and PR’s – Issue 595,
- Issue 561: Add Software Level of Support property to Software Package
- Issue 522: Expressing conformance constraints – should this be moved to 3.1?

## Notes
- Profile Team Members are requested to review the 3.0 Milestone label and update if necessary to 3.1.
- Serialization team meeting is this Thursday. Ongoing, productive discussions happening RE JSON-Schema.
- Broaden discussion of lifecycle beyond just software (LifecycleScopedRelationship & LifecycleScopedType)
  - Robert brought the issue that the language used was lightly tied to software, and minor editing to make the language more neutral would be ideal. The group reviewed the Vocabularies/LifecycleScopedRelationship.md file and identified a few words that could be removed or changed in order to suit the Hardware team's needs.
  - Gary agreed that the changes could be made in a straightforward way. There were no objections from the attendees.
     - DECISION - Robert Martin w ill create a PR to modify the language on these files.
- Handling IDs in JSON serialization - see discussion in https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-serialization-prototype-playground/pull/29
  - Gary described the issue presented in this PR, how to treat the SPDX id on this PR. Gary noted that Alexios should weigh in, but was not present, and may need to wait until the serialization meeting to discuss further.
  - Joshua provided some additional clarifying information about the PR; noting that the proposal is to optionally add a @id. 
  - Discussion ensued as to whether this change would require an update to the Data Model. 
  - Joshua will merge in some changes/updates to the prototype-playground repo in order to better illustrate the relationship between the IDs and the model, blank nodes, and URI nodes. Once this merges, participants can test out how this validates and provide feedback.
  - The conversation will continue on Thursday during the Serialization meeting.
- Issue 630: Consider extensibility for package "file" types (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/630)
  - The group discussed the issue, noting that as we don't know future use-cases, we should not foreclose on those. The group voiced preference to use the "property-based" approach, noting that type rather than  boolean is preferrable. The group also felt this may be a more future-proof approach.  
  - DECISION - use the "property-based" approach. Gary will create a PR to implement.
- Integrity Method related issues and PR’s – Issue 595 (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/595)
  - Topic was postponed so that Jeff S. and Alexios could be part of the discussion.
- Issue 561: Add Software Level of Support property to Software Package (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/561)
  - Gary asked whether there would be any challenges for organizations like NTIA to adopt if this was not landed. Previous discussions indicated that this could be a high priority to include, related to the EU CRA legislation. 
  - The group will discuss this topic further next week when Kate returns, and can summarize the previous discussion and opinions.
- Issue 522: Expressing conformance constraints – should this be moved to 3.1? (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/522)
  - Gary asked if the validation of the constraints should be pushed to 3.1 (though the documentation will ship in 3.0). There were no disagreements to this approach. 
  - DECISION: Agreed to move the validation component to 3.1.

## AOB
- Joshua shared that he had an opportunity to update some of the namespacing in the playground, and shared some of his findings.
  - Because of the profile prefix from the namespacing update (see https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/651#issuecomment-1979368441) , there's an opportunity to rename classes/properties to make it shorter by removing the redundant part. For example, `AI/AIPackage` can be just `AI/Package` since it will be prefixed with `ai_` to be `ai_Package` in the serialization. It is up to the Profile teams to decide if they like to rename.
- There was no other business and the meeting concluded at 1:12 p.m. ET
