# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-01-16

## Attendees
* Kate Stewart
* Jeff Liquia
* Bob Martin
* Rob Craig
* Nisha Kumar
* Venkat Ramakrishanan
* Karsten Klein
* Joshua Watt
* Victor Lu
* Dick Brooks
* Max Huber
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Henk Birkholz
* David Edelsohn

### Regrets
* Alexios Zavras
* Gary O'Neall
* Sean Barnum

## Agenda
* Update on spec tooling - Jeff
* Package Verification Code Update - Nisha
* Review of open RC2 PRs - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pulls
* Plan to discuss SPDX tooling at FOSDEM conference  (Alexios mail out to find time)

## Notes

### Spec Tooling update
* Update on Tooling for SPDX 3.0 Spec 
Jeff provided an update on the progress made on the tooling for the SPDX 3.0 spec, highlighting that a new parser branch has been promoted to be the main branch and discussing changes in directories and migration of content into a development branch. He encouraged everyone to review and provide feedback as it is still in early stages. 

* Deployment of New Version 
Jeff mentioned working on deploying the new version so that it's browsable without needing local hosting, encouraging everyone to review and identify any issues or inaccuracies in the content. 

* Accessing New Version Instructions
Kate requested instructions for accessing the new version, which Jeff confirmed would eventually be incorporated into official builds with a dropdown menu option. He also shared Alexios's original public link as a temporary access point until deployment is completed. 

  * The parser main branch has Alexios's code now. Looking for testing and feedback.
  *  Alexios original work is in https://zvr.github.io/spdx-3-spec/
Jeff is working github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/ in the development/v3.0 branch <-- please file any weirdness issues here. Pull requests very welcome. 
  * Don't assume that the Annex updates are present or the front matter for the specification.  
  
### Package Verification Code
  * Integrity method discussion last Friday.   
  * PVC can easily be replaced with GitOID (Git Object ID),  with content identifier. 
  * Was misinterpretting how we verify a collection of files.  GitOID is only used in content type.  Which is a property of software artifact.    Currently not a subclass of integrity method.  Needs a documentation rewrite as a content identifier as well as a verification identifier.   Clarification in documentation.   
  * GitOID is what OmniBOR (Universal Bill Of Receipts) uses. 
  * Package verification code was not discussed, from backward compatibility perspective, we may have open issue.   Jeff is asserting it should be dropped.   Need to be explicit about use cases - dropping out, and adding in?   Not in a git system. 
  * Kate to send email to the thread, and bring back.    Henk, want to  keep "other" option as well, for custom that is not repository attached.   Possibly use other for PVC as well?  GitOID calculation of hash is sensitive to ordering of components.   GitOID has ordering requirement,   but SBOM doesn't. 

### SHACL Model - current version not validating. 
https://github.com/spdx/spec-parser/issues/74 - has been updated to reflect need for this to be working. 

### Open PRs
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/603 - Kate to fill in missing TODOs for PVC;   Disscussion that we should have some post quantum for future proofing.   Arthit points out SPHINCS+ is a stateless hash-based signature scheme, which was submitted to the NIST post-quantum crypto project.  https://sphincs.org/.  Concensus is we should include it as it's the best known QR hash algorithm. See https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/117/materials/slides-117-pquip-post-quantum-cryptography-for-engineers-01 for variants of Sphincs+; we may need to be more explicit with the identification. In the same source Sphincs+ is said to be proposed for Round 4 of the NIST selection process. Currently, it does not appear on https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/post-quantum-cryptography/round-4-submissions. 
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/602 - Bob & Dick to review
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/599 - Kate & Nisha to review.  Looks good to merge, but want discussion.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/597 - Reviewed & Merged.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/596 - no issues raised;  merged. 
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/588 - waiting on Sean (Bob to ask Sean to review)
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/587 - Alexios /Sean/Kate to review
* 579 CI run - (joshua) see note in PR
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/503 - see note in PR. Jeff L. to review files.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/475 - (stale)
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/402 - need Max/Nisha to review - may be stale?  due to element collection.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/376 - see note in PR

## FOSDEM Discussions
* Please see Alexios' note on mailing list,  and if interested in getting together please mark availability and join in. 

## Decisions
*

## Action Items
- Review the spreadsheet created by Alexios for any annexes that need updating before RC2 release
- [WIP] Review open pull requests created by Gary
- [PENDING] Document the rules on how profiles work and where properties should be placed (??)
- [WIP] Fix issues with data license property and missing namespace issue for any license info class (Steve W?)
- [PENDING] Merge PR regarding updating Annex D with additional information on license expressions used in SPDX spec files before RC2 release.
- [PENDING ] Rewrite or remove external repository identifiers from the model 
- [PENDING ] Update Annex marked with rewrite in https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1QHp5QwmBlsmd2iXNy-Y7K6oka_u5qc51iR6Xr0s0Qao/edit#gid=0 if there is a volunteer; otherwise, it won't be included in RC2.   Key ones needing owners are:  SPDX-Lite;  Use SPDX in different scenarios;   File Tags.

## Next SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-01-23
