# Call on Namespaces
## Attendees
* Bob Martin
* Gary O'Neall
* David Kemp
* Sean Barnum
* Nisha Kumar
* Brandon Lum

## Minutes

- Reviewed the Namespace Alternative Scenario Flow produced by Sean: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ftHSe05kHINr9hFIqYu2QdfLNlsox1Es/view
- Discussion whether the scenarios described at the start were required
  - Gary expressed that they were not all required
  - Robert and Sean believed that the are required and were part of the original 3T SBOM requirements
  - Agreed that the first 3 steps in the scenario are required
  - Agreed that all else being equal (or almost equal) a solution that supports all of the scenarios is preferred
  - Agreed to disagree on whether the scenarios after the 3rd step is required
- Organized the considerations into priority order
  - Agreed that the first requirement was very important (integrity_
  - David suggested that the provenance requirement would be handled if the first requirement was met - there was not general agreement, but we noted the point
- Reviewed the serialization

## Next meeting
- Next meeting scheduled for Monday 18 Sept. 2023 at 9AM Pacific time.  

## Actions
- All participants in the meeting are requested to add comments or suggested changes to the pro's and con's table: https://docs.google.com/document/d/17cWh31ofE_tty5CbKt69Z_JzBphVa5kfls0TugyQWCM/edit?usp=sharing
