## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Savino Sguera
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Ed Warnicke
  - Brandon Robinson
  - Rana Rahal
  - Jack Manbeck

## Agenda

  - Discuss proposal for hierarchical supply chain (bug 818)

Discussion on excluded files and relationship to SPDX files. Embedded
packages will be addressed in version 2.0 of the spec.

For the embedded packages which are represented by a subdirectory of
files, proposal would be that there is an SPDX file at the root of the
subdirectory which would detail out the embedded package. The higher
level SPDX would reference the SPDX file in the subdirectory. The higher
level SPDX does not need to detail out the files contained in the lower
level SPDX.

Discussion on references to embedded SPDX files – how does that affect
the proposed model? Possibly including a null specifier reference.
Possibly including an SPDX reference in the model.

Discussion on including some of the 1.1 model into the proposed model.

(I believe there was general agreement that the license model was
useful, however this was not confirmed on the call)

Discussion on the model around packages files and file types. Discussion
on whether this model is useful or if it overly complicates and
constrains the model. Agreed that it would be nice to allow SPDX to
refer to things other than packages. Discussion on using the annotations
for this purpose. Will pick up the discussion next week.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
