## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Bill Schineller
  - Kirsten Newcomer
  - Kate Stewart
  - Rana Rahal
  - Peter Williams

## Agenda

  - Review of latest 1.1 spec draft

## Review of 1.1 spec draft

  - Should the data license be a new tag? Kate will discuss this with
    Jilayne
  - Fixed the bugs related to spelling/grammar
  - Added optional creator comment field – Peter will update RDF then
    assign to Gary to update tools
  - \[action\] Verify the verification code by comparing the python
    results with the java tools results (Bill)
  - Inconsistency in RDF examples related to “nodeid” and “resource=”
    license references. Kate will make it consistent in the document.
    Cannot easily make the tool generate consistent references, however,
    it is equivalent in RDF.
  - RDF site has missing SHA – Peter to add back the SHA for versioning
  - Update to the diagram – Currently no object model around
    Organization and Person. Proposal to add object model for 1.1. Will
    add to the list of features to be considered for 1.1.
  - Data license – change text from “only valid” to “current valid” to
    reflect the fact 1.0 version had a different “only valid” value.
  - Use of the word “database” in the data license section can be
    confusing. The creative commons zero license only refers to
    “database” and not “data”. Kate will update spec to add text
    connecting “database” to its use in the license (e.g. “database as
    used in the Creative Commons …”).
  - Supplier field – implementation of this field isn’t clear. To be
    discussed in the 2.0 discussion for the supply chain use cases.
  - Would be nice to add the Creative Commons Zero license as an
    appendix to the spec.
  - Will add a changelog for future changes to spec

## Other discussions and updates

  - Timing on version 1.1– proposed target end of Q1
  - License matching – legal team is discussing if 2 license texts
    represent the same license. Proposal to create a guidelines document
    (separate from the spec) and a tool reference implementation (being
    worked on by Kate)
  - Proposal to annotations in programming languages – will add a bug to
    track
  - Tools – haven’t heard from Martin on increasing upload size – Kate
    will check with Martin. Other option is to update the new website.
  - Kate will be in Europe next week, but still plans to make the call.
    The last 2 weeks Kate be in Australia and will not be able to make
    the call due to time zone differences.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
