# SPDX Canonicalisation Committee Meeting - May 20, 2022

## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Sebastian Crane

## Agenda

* Minutes approval
* Byte-level format of the canonical specification
* AOB

## Notes

Minutes approved from April meetings.

### Byte level representation

Discussion of the basic JSON types and their canonical representation. Focused on SPDX-specific data types in previous meetings, so all agreed that it's time to start working on fundamental types. It is noted that using JSON gives structure, but the canonical representation still needs to be defined.

Alexios shared a typical JSON document showing all the fundamental types of JSON.



```js
{
	"Image": {
		"Width":  800,
		"Height": 600,
		"Title":  "View from 15th Floor",
		"Thumbnail": {
			"Url": "http://www.example.com/image/481989943",
		"Height": 125,
		"Width":  100
	},
	"Animated" : false,
	"IDs": [116, 943, 234, 38793]
	}
}
```

All agreed that there should be no line breaks, and that key names should be wrapped in double quotes.

List of aspects agreed upon:

* no whitespace outside of strings

* true, false and null: the literal names must be lowercase; no other literal names are allowed.

* integers: represented in base 10 using decimal digits. Contains an integer component that may be prefixed with an optional minus sign. Leading zeros are not allowed.

* strings: UTF-8 representation without specific canonicalisation. A string begins and ends with quotation marks (%x22). Any Unicode characters may be placed within the quotation marks, except for the characters that MUST be escaped: quotation mark, reverse solidus, and the control characters (U+0000 through U+001F).

* arrays: An array structure is represented as square brackets surrounding zero or more items. Items are separated by commas.

* objects: An object structure is represented as a pair of curly brackets surrounding zero or more name/value pairs (or members). A name is a string containing only ASCII characters (0x21-0x7F). The names within an object must be unique. A single colon comes after each name, separating the name from the value. A single comma separates a value from a following name. The name/value pairs are ordered by name value. We will need to specify sorting (eg. case sensitivity and ASCII values).

Final result of previous JSON example:

```
{"Image":{"Animated":false,"Height":600,"IDs":[116,943,234,38793],"Thumbnail":{"Height":125,"Url":"http://www.example.com/image/481989943","Width":100},"Title":"View from 15th Floor","Width":800}}

```
