# SPDX Canonicalisation Committee Meeting - May 13, 2022

## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* David Kemp
* Henk Birkholz
* Jim Hutchinson
* Karsten Klein
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Sebastian Crane

## Agenda

* Core purpose of having a canonical serialisation
* SemVer property

## Notes

### Core purpose

There was discussion of the core purpose of having a Canonical Serialisation for SPDX and to ensure a common understanding of the Committee's mission.
Key aspects include:

* For two Elements that are identical, their canonical serialisations have an identical hash; for two different Elements, their canonical serialisations have a different hash.
That is, unequal values lead to unequal canonical representations.

* Two different strings may 'mean' the same thing but they have two different canonical representation.
Inferring meaning from the values is out of scope: having the same canonical representation means multiple values are equal, but having different canonical representations gives no information.

* Stretch goal is to facilitate cryptographic signing of individual Elements.

String concatenation ambiguity was discussed; general agreement to explicitly avoid the implementation of 'string' except as a value.

### SemVer

The `SpecVersion` property on every Element is of a data type 'SemVer' ([Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/)).
There was discussion about whether there should be a specific canonical representation of SemVer either for the `SpecVersion` property, version identifiers on generic artefact Elements, or both.

The preference for those present is for plain string versions on generic Elements, even if the artefact in question uses Semantic Versioning.
This is due to the wide variety of versioning schemes across software ecosystems.

It was noted that it is impossible to tell whether a 'SemVer-like' alphanumeric version is in fact SemVer or not.

Options for Element `SpecVersion`:

* Structured data of major, minor and patch levels
* Plain string
* Enumeration (enum) type of specification versions known about

It was decided that this is out of scope for the Canonicalisation Committee, as this is a general model discussion.
As such, this will proposed for the next Tech Team meeting agenda or brought up as a topic on the mailing list.

## Decisions

* We will recommend to the Tech Team that version specifiers on generic artefact Elements be plain text

## Action points

* Sebastian to propose discussion of the `SpecVersion` property as an agenda item for next Tech Team meeting

## Topics for next meeting

* `SpecVersion` data type (subject to agreement by wider Tech Team)
* Byte representation of strings, values, object keys etc.
* Byte representation of nullable (optional) fields
