## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart
  - Bill Schineller
  - Peter Williams
  - Gary O'Neall

## Topics

  - we now have a mailing list for technical team (thanks Kate)
    self-register at \[\[Technical Team\] (click the 'mailing list here'
    link <http://lists.spdx.org/mailman/listinfo/spdx-tech> )
  - Peter reviewed the re-vamped structure of spec.html currently
    maintained in master branch of his github repo at
    <https://github.com/pezra/spdx-spec> spec.html has directives for
    the rake task to include contents of section\_2,3,4,5 such that one
    html file is generated with the complete ontology. Team asked that
    the generated file also get committed (to lower the barrier of entry
    for someone wishing to look at the rendered html during development)
  - Reviewed Peter's writeup of the composite license proposal at
    [Technical\_Team/Proposals/2010-10-21/Composite\_licensing](Technical_Team/Proposals/2010-10-21/Composite_licensing "wikilink").
    Team agreed the "OrLater" concept in the proposal best be split out
    into a separate proposal. Bill asked technical question about
    whether the references to standard spdx licenses should use
    rdf:resource vs. rdf:Description... rdf:about Bill asked whether the
    e.g. DisjunctiveLicenseSet should itself be a subclass of
    spdx:License; Peter's recommendation was that it be another object
    in the range of properties which currently have License in their
    range.
  - Mozilla Tri-License usage scenario for composite license. Proposal
    shows its usage in Package/Declared and Discovered licenses. How to
    avoid repeating for every File object in a) RDF format and b)
    tag-value format? Kate noted that if the 'Mozilla Tri-License' is
    well known to exist in the wild, then it is a good candidate for
    inclusion in the SPDX license list. But more generally, team agreed
    it would be good form if a 'composite license' is encountered to
    model it once within the NonStandardLicense section of the SPDXDoc
    with a locally unique id and reference it from other places within
    the document.
  - re: the artifactOf proposal, Kate noted that the tag-value example
    was unclear. Peter and Kate discussed a convention...
  - Peter raised idea of additional properties between licenses such as
    'laterVersionOf'
  - Bill asked about use case of SPDX analysis reporting the discovery
    of a phrase like "This file is licensed under the GPL' - clearly too
    ambiguous to map to one of the standard SPDX licenses, but perhaps
    of interest to consumer of an SPDX doc. With current spec, \*could\*
    report such as a NonStandardLicense whenever encountered. Raised
    idea (in future rev of spec?) of modeling license 'families' as an
    additional way to express associations between licenses, and allow
    reporting such a discovery in a standard way.
  - Time expired on the meeting.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
