# SPDX AI Team Meeting 2026-02-11

## Attendees
- Alfred Strauch
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Raymond Sheh
- Steven Carbno
- Victor Lu

## Agenda
- Approve previous minutes: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pulls
- All outstanding minutes approved and closed
- Welcome any new members
- General announcements
- [3.1-rc2] Add external identifier types for person, organization, document, regulation, location to support open science, FAIR, IP, supply chain use cases  
  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1187  
  Tech’s decision to accept in -rc2
- Victor shared: https://www.snia.org/sniadeveloper/session/19312
- SPDX Roles Proposal - Alfred/Steven
  - Questions from last week’s meeting
    - Q1: Roles different between governance and MITRE bottoms-up approach. How to address.
    - Q2: Do ontologies like IEEE COO and ISO/IEC 21838-2 help
    - Q3: Do we have a solution not to model the world, just focus on SPDX profile needs?
- SPDX Persona List - Raymond
  - Ray's Notes on AI Supply Chain Entities
- SPDX Tooling Knowledge Graph Explorer Tool - any further update
- SPDX Tooling OWASP crosswalk table - for review  
  Added the 3.1 fields and relationships needed  
  (aibom-generator/HF_files/aibom-generator/docs/AI_SBOM_Fields_Mapping_Reference.md at main · GenAI-Security-Project/aibom-generator)
- AOB
  - Art’s posting about Finland’s interoperable, trustworthy, and machine-readable copyright data in the AI era - something to consider for SPDX or not (future debate)
  - ETSI PT3 feedback - vulnerability handling; was due on Feb 8
  - Biggest concern from LF: no words in this ETSI standard that vulnerability reporting and handling needs to be communicated upstream with OSS code, but there are words in the EU AI Acts that require this
  - General community feedback: these standards are being rushed, and companies are starting to steer away from them and just interpret the EU AI rules by themselves
  - If you haven’t watched these videos of AI Future, highly suggest it. Google is working on a data centre in a box that works from space, and we thought managing risk was way too complex now. CISCO Summit recording about AI Future
- Others

## Notes
- Rationale and start and end times related to the Tech meeting have been approved and merged. See Tech notes for more details.
- Identifiers PR impacts many issues. Victor suggested breaking it apart.
- It is an enumeration list; therefore, it has to be one file: `ExternalIdentityType.md`.
- After discussion, the WG agreed on keeping it as one PR.
- How identifiers can be used will be described in examples, to be created separately.
- The group approved the PR.

## Roles Conversation
- Roles have relationships.
- Fitness is already described in the role, therefore not needed.
- Roles can be any agent or anything else.
- Roles have expectations.
- Example used: data host - hardware.
- Roles define responsibilities and requirements between any two elements.
- How well the ideal is fulfilled is verified elsewhere using functional safety.
- Each profile defines roles to help users understand and use roles in profiles.
- Add a concept named “Crosswalk” to compare similar but different terms from different standards: IEEE, ISO, CoSe. Most complicated.
- Crosswalk is a complex concept. Needs further discussion and design.
- Used for ontology integration.
- May use “contains” in addition to Crosswalk. How will it be expressed?
- How will language be used to express an idea: sideways, up, and down.
- Simple Standard for Sharing Ontological Mappings (SSSOM) may be used instead of a crosswalk.
- Crosswalk may be named a translation or a conversion.

## References
- https://mapping-commons.github.io/sssom/
- https://github.com/codemeta/codemeta
- https://codemeta.github.io/crosswalk/
