# SPDX AI Team Meeting 2026-03-04

## Attendees
- Alfred Strauch
- Steven Carbno
- Raymond Sheh
- Bob Martin
- Elyas Rashno
- Andreas Fehlner
- Karen Bennet
- Gopi
- Victor

## Agenda
- Approve previous minutes: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pulls
- Welcome any new members
- General announcements
- SPDX Google Calendar
- AI Outreach Activities
- Updated version of ICSE-SEIP paper, Building an Open AIBOM Standard in the Wild - April 2026, Brazil to present?
- Understanding AI Risk Beyond the Model published - 03/2026
- SPDX AI Profile - What’s new - Open Chain Meeting - March 2026
- FINOS 2026 - Navigating AI / Cybersecurity Governance and existing financial regulations - March 2026
- SOA 2026 - AI Bias for Insurance Industry - May 2026
- ISO Plenary October 2026 planning started
  - Let me know if you want any specific public sessions
  - SPDX 3.0.1 added as it will be a new ISO standard

### [3.1-rc2] Status
- Add DOI, ORCID iD to `ExternalIdentifierType` #1187 (Core) - Elyas
- Add Agent & Foundational Model #1091 (AI) - Elyas
- Add examples from LF AI BOM whitepaper #1012 (AI) - Karen
  - Need to talk to Art about where to post
- Use QUDT for energy consumption #768 - Art
  - To present proposal
- Add Role #1221 (Core)
  - Raymond to rewrite some of the persona definitions
  - Write some definitions for entity roles
  - Concept of role class needs to be defined
  - Steven to create diagram in PR using open source steward example
- Add Annotation process #1100 (Dataset) - Elyas

## SPDX Tooling
- SPDX Explorer tool - availability?
- OWASP AI BOM SPDX Generated - started
- Persona: Ray's notes on Role, Persona, Qualification, Fitness

## AOB

## Notes
- Karen to confirm that Zoom recording can work for SPDX-AI.
- SPDX Explorer tool needs legal approval to release; this is being worked on.
- VEX vulnerabilities in the Security profile were discussed.
- Steven talked through how VEX works today.
- Gopi has a proposal to use AI incident / OWASP weakness.
- Consider using OpenClaw CVE as an example.
- Bob provided the OpenClaw CVE: https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2026-24763
- MITRE call (1pm): there was not understanding between the two groups. Bob helped explain to Peter.
- Raymond articulated the need for fitness, including fitness of role, fitness of persona, plus other relationships. The position stated was that everyone has a fitness.
- Raymond described persona as ability to act or agency.
- Victor added to chat:
  - usercontent.com/BFO-ontology/BFO/master/docs/bfo2-reference/BFO2-Reference.pdf
  - This has a large discussion about roles.
