## SPDX Hardware Minutes - 2023-08-25

## Attendees:
* Jim Vitrano
* Michael Gielda
* Alexander Volynkin
* Kate Stewart
      
## Agenda
* Round of Introductions
* Brainstorming next steps

## Notes:
* Introductions
* Jim:  coming in with general intrerest of the project, works for Intel but here as a community member
* Michael:  Antmicro Founder - pragmatic interest in tools,  active with Chips Alliance, RISCV, Zephyr
* Alexander: At CMU SEI - background in computer engineering & security field.   Drone background
* Kate:  Safety focus - we need to analyze systems (which have hardware)
       
* Need to get AMD & Dell participating.
* Need to socialize what's happening, and get others participating. 
    
* Michael gave overview of Renode System composer, Renodepedia & Zephyr Dashboard and use of internal abstractions underneath, as well as auto generation capabilities.
* Alexander interested in how low can go?   
* Michael: able to go to source file level, and composable down as needed.
* Kate: SPDX core model supports modularity and linkage as far down as you need to go.     
* Want to be able to scale from top level down to deep.  
* Need to figure out basic information - what is going to be key to keep for risk & security analysis
* Firmware - versioned over time,  IP blocks versions changing over time, etc.   This needs to be considered.
    
* TODO Kate:  Device Tree - pull in some of the participants
* TODO Kate: Confirm time works for Dell & AMD. 

## Next meeting: 2023-09-08
