# SPDX Hardware BOM Meeting - 2023-10-20

## Attendees
* Kate Stewart - Linux Foundation
* Steven Carbno - Smart Talk Beacon
* Alfred Strauch - Smart Talk Beacon
* Bob Martin - MITRE
* Isaac Asay - AMD 
* Jim Vitrano

## Agenda
* Intros of any new folk
* Prior Action Item review
* Continue discussion of HBOM Document from CISA and capture key use cases.

## Prior Action Items:
*AI:  Kate to work with Safety folk, and determine if ok to move to their meeting. - DONE (we're meeting in new time)
* AI:  Kate: Set up google doc with the use cases want to represent. - DONE (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OdUDRcLFxXz3bskuvCOmji710dS6b6HMLuWMYBoF1Cc/edit)
    
## Notes:
* Sign up at: https://lists.spdx.org/g/spdx-hardware for mailing list
* Draft Use Case Document at: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OdUDRcLFxXz3bskuvCOmji710dS6b6HMLuWMYBoF1Cc/edit
* What is the interaction of compute components?   Should environment be self aware and self contained?  Security of environment as well as elements?
* Discussion around how HBOMs are formed (multiple participants through assembly), and production;  operational group - keeping up to date;  software aspects.
* What are existing references we should consider?
* Initially focus on computing devices;  but don't want to preclude others for using from using it.
* Physical fingerprints, identificiation of devices, etc.   Know in truth its an exact device,  what's out there, and what do you need to convey it.   Thinking about counterfeiting, and clones. 
* How hardware validated at inception and during ongoing;  fundamental to nature of compute.   What should be the key hardware elements, and define them effectively?   How maintain quality of metadata within a specific device environment?   Define if Metadata quality is a requirement, and if so, convey it. 
* Association of a piece of hardware to an HBOM and assure that actually linked - don't want to just trust, but be able to independently verify.
* Use cases:  Monitoring & vulnerability detection.    What is running on this car with this VIN number at a point in time.  Supply chain substitutions.    What choices were made around a specific device. 
* Want to be able to point HBOM --> SBOMS,   and be able to say that this SBOM runs on all the HBOMs.
    
## Action Items
