# SPDX Hardware BOM Meeting - 2023-10-06

## Attendees
* Kate Stewart - Linux Foundation
* Steven Carbno - Smart Talk Beacon
* Bob Martin - MITRE
* Alfred Strauch - Smart Talk Beacon
* Marcel Kurzman - Bosch
* Alex Volynkin - SEI at CMU
* Michael Gielda - Antmicro

## Agenda
* Introductions
* CISA HBOM Document Walk through
* New Time to meet?

## Notes
* Steven Carbno - Smart talk beacon;  network infrastructure.
* Alfred Strauch - OMG;  RFP for ERMA (enterprise resource metadata attribution), looking to align for operation and management of devices;  connection to reasons why BOMs development.   Hardware, Software, Networking components.  - Process and architecture for utilizing metadata for operations.   Matching hardware to software, and other sources of metadata are going to be critical.   Perceive future of systems.
* Marcel Kurzman - looking to find out what is available, and see who else in BOSCH has hardware use cases
* Alex Volynkin - Source of hardware is of interest to clients,  interested 
* Bob Martin - Interested in a bill of materials core, and then add to it info needed for particular types.  Software, license, build environment, hardware, etc. DOHS & ICT SCRIMM untilities - hardware bill of materials  draft participant.   Avoiding duplicating things out there for managing BOMS.   Extend beyond current use cases.
* Kate Stewart - Background SPDX,  Interested in supporting safety use cases
* Michael Gielda - Be able to describe hardware in a structured way and standardize.   Know that the thing you're building for supplychain/security/ease of SW development, want hardware to be more transparent. Open source Renode simulator which requires modeling hardware - know what it is, and how related to other hardware,  looking to see patterns.  IP related.   Zephyr has a lot of this hardware in device trees; avoid rewriting driver; running CI dashboard.   290 of targets running in simulation, running codified data.   Testing 500 targets against various binaries.  RISC-V & Chips Alliance interactions.   Reusing open blocks, and well documented, will improve software quality

*. Document can be found at: https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-09/A%20Hardware%20Bill%20of%20Materials%20Framework%20for%20Supply%20Chain%20Risk%20Management%20%28508%29.pdf
* Background:  Started from manufacturers for covering certain kinds of products.
   * Currently oriented around inventory operations and manufacturing processes
   * Interactions between hardware and software for vulnerabilities
   * Information in any piece of hardware needs to be matched up, to software, to create effective systems
   * Want supply chain to be able to pass forward for provenance for building..   Things like tin in space example.  Quality attribute of product.   We want to be able tackle all of these things, so people can converge around say document.    
   * Who created document, and what they were tracking about their hardware elements in their use cases.   Explore where to fit data in current format.    What do you want to share, and why you want to share
* System:
    * Understanding hardware, it's behavior and composition;  map into right software constructucts.   Tracking hardware, how it was created, who touched it,  etc.
    * Document is a pre-purchase hardware bill of materials
       * Manufacture location - what is my general supply chain outbound.   Specific product, know what is exactly what it in here (what factory it came from)
       * Recognized need for products made of products,  and apply to a chip, PCB board, solder, etc.  
       * "Your system is my component".   needs to be composable.   We're all in a supply 
       * Composable - end shipping;  subcontractor to manufacturer,  is the customer. 
       * How do FPGAs participate in this?   Modifiable logic after things are created - software, firmware (software burned into physical device), fpga/bitstream - all are merging and becoming similar.  Where are tools used to build software.  IP, device drivers, etc.   Compare to needs and risk tolerance. 
       
    * Additional Use Cases to look to incorporate.
        * Hardware Provenance & Composition
        * Integration of Hardware & Software into Systems
        * Digital Twins - and assurance cases.
        * Safety need to be included.   
        
   * Security & Supply chain issues - getting into more details and have assurance it hasn't been compromised (integrity, provenance, how made, analysis done, ...). BOM needs right hooks to connect to attestation activity.  BOM is a tool to reference something. 
 
* What is in framework now?   Going through examples of what's being done.
   * https://zephyr-dashboard.renode.io/
   * https://openhardware.antmicro.com & https://designer.antmicro.com/ - links.
  * Connecting hardware with data about it.
  * Building block diagrams of hardware;  
  * Design BOM for hardware;  as opposed to deployable version with has "physical" instance - Operational.

* Alfred - Metaphysical aspect - mapping of hardware information onto software and systems.   ERMA supplychain interactions, needs to be dealt with in compute architecture.   Knowledge base for dealing with interaction on the supply chain level.   Full understanding of inventories.   Digital representation of what is going on in compute environement, and interact with supply chain.   

* Discussion of meeting time,  agreement to move to 2 hours later.   


## Action Items
* AI:  Kate to work with Safety folk, and determine if ok to move to their meeting.  DONE.
* AI:  Kate: Set up google doc with the use cases want to represent.

## Next SPDX Hardware BOM Meeting 2023-10-20
