# SPDX Hardware BOM Meeting - 2023-12-15

## Attendees
* Steven Carbno - Smart Talk Beacon
* Kate Stewart - SPDX Core
* Alfred Strach - Smart Talk Beacon
* Bob Martin - MITRE
* Jim Vitrano  

## Agenda
* Intro of any new folk
* Follow up on pending action items
* Work on refining document

## Prior Action Items 
* Michael G - how handle Data inputs in simultions?
* Kate - map fields from Steven & CISA into document and start mapping to SPDX
* All - plan out the roadmaps & organizations to provide context.
* Future - turn into presentation to start socialization and gathering further input.

## Notes
  * Work on refining https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OdUDRcLFxXz3bskuvCOmji710dS6b6HMLuWMYBoF1Cc/edit
  * Plans - getting the above document ready to respond to will get more HW 
  * Next steps once document is first pass - circle around and pull in integrators & hardware 
  * Assurance case:  structure and under what conditions are you arguing something is true, for an environment.
    * Walked through the Assurance Models.   GSN v2+ has metamodel under it.   GSN & SACM have same underpinnings,   GSN - more at safety assurance cases?   SACM is larger scope.
    * SACM - superset of GSN & CAE (worked together under OMG))
    * Data elements might be advantageous.  
    * SACM - metamodel - UML profile of SACM - will enable tools to ingest, and be able to create assurance cases in system engineering tools.   Targetting for march.
    * Tools will be ingesting UML profile.   Looking to test this out.  
    * Most of elements in SACM are optional, so can adjust to profiles and use just what is needed.
    * Underlying assumptions;  then make a large claim;  decompose, and need to argue didn't loose or narrow things.   Capturing reasoning behind.  Assurance case, elaborate set.   Data against.  SBOM,  test results,  log files, etc.   Assurance case and refer to it in SBOM.   Pointing to reasoning in SBOM. 
    * Assurance Standards and continuity  - how can we incorporate into SBOM flows?   Discussion with Bob.


## Decisions
* Jan 12 is next meeting,  skipping Dec 29th. 

## New Action Items
* None
