# SPDX FuSa Meeting 2024-08-02

## Attendees
* Steven Carbno
* Nicole Pappler
* Chuck Wolber
* Alfred Strauch
* Ryan Brooks
* Kate Stewart
* Ayan Kumar Halder

## Agenda
- Continue discussion of modeling

## Notes
- Introduced notion of Action, that has been introduced 
- Things on checklists makes sense as "Actions" class 
   - Actor vs Participant vs Agent (what we have defined).
   - Roles for participants - "Role is based on type of actor" 
   - Actor type is not sufficient to differentiate role. 
   - Should Actor have a role property,  or should we use a set of relationship types.
   - We should differentiate context of entity vs their roles around actions?
- Is an Agent a system?   OTE - Automated test Environment.  
   - How should a system be tied into this?
   - X person started the automated test framework, then.
- For now - let's use element collection for a system.    Can Element collection be used as an agent object?
   -Do we need an "operates" type of relationship.    Who operates the action. 
   - Do we need an object that shows what is a standard. 
   - Plan for Aspect of Cerification (PSAC) is document calling the shots... 
- Should we consider Certification as a "Requirement";   
  - Certification plans tree down to subsystems; and show evidence of compliance during the processes.    Might be refered to as a compliance plan. 
  - Design is encompassed in requirements,  so not sure certification should be considered this way. 
  - Pedigree to show actors are qualified for the job.
- Top level is compliance plan, which breaks down into subsystems...
- Compliance Object - need somethign to represent the standard as it's own entity.  Which things comply with. 
    - Hazard Assessment, Mitigation, and Compliance.
- Standard would be an Artifact.
  - then it would be a requirement the Safety Plan. 

- Should we add a type to requirements - to encompass standards?   Let's try this.  
   - Hazard assessment, should provide level of rigour.   Doing hazard assessment creates requirements on system as well. 
   - Consider adding type on requirement object
   - Chuck will look to see if we can map PSAC to these concepts.

- Discussion should requirements have actions associated with them, that can generate evidence, that becomes requirements. 
- Should we have requirement types?   chaining.   Someone's evidence, is another part's relationship.
- Types:  planning, execution, etc. ...   
- Evidence says, we need more requirements.    Evidence is "generating" Requirments.
- Abstraction of planning document. 
