# SPDX FuSa Meeting 2024-08-23 
## Attendees
- Steven Carbno
- Alfred Strauch
- Ryan Brooks
- Chuck Wolber
- Nicole Pappler
- Kate Stewart

## Agenda
- Continue discussion of modeling


## Notes
- Discrete scenarios were put in the document by Chuck. 
- For a given relationship type there are some defined set of reasonable roles. 
- Discussed roles, should it only be agent roles, or extend to automation, etc.  
- Role needs a definition;   as well for each enumerated roles. 
- Discussion of guidance & example of roles.    provides guidance - detailed specification, to remove ambiguities.   provides example - detailed.   Guidance would be to/from artifact.
- Relationship is verb.   Role & Participants are nouns.    Role is the noun that makes more sense with the verb.
- Instructor?  (more specific than teaches?).  
- working through relationship:
    - describes.   This design description "describes" this implemenation.
    - Guidance is amended by regulator;   Guidance is amended by a finding;  memo, vulnerability disclosure.  Documentation is amended by update/revision.
- Homework:  
    - All people put down a set of use cases for roles & add more element
         - Work through list of existing relationships and enumerate roles on both sides for objects.
         - Work through some safety standards, and call out relationships.
         - Put in visual format (diagraming sentences) so can scan down. 
         - Want to have "From Element" "Role" "Relationship" "Role" "To Element"...   
         - Each do 10 with established relationships, to probe,  do in markdown syntax. 
