# SPDX FuSa Meeting 2024-11-15
## Attendees
- Steven Carbno
- Alfred Strauch
- Nicole Pappler
- Chuck Wolber
- Sandra Hermoso Rodriguez

## Agenda
- 3.1 Schedule & Branch Info
- Review of Class & Properties to be submitted,   division of work
- Gaps still to be defined

## Notes
- discussing https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1i4hmr4UZTDdcNv1YRS4vYWqpiknzCoytHbgdv_wnFhc/edit?usp=sharing
- a piece of hardware is never just a piece of hardware but always a result of a process with a specific specification
- proposal to address the most rigorous standards (DO 178 & DO 330) with the FuSa profile
- covering IOS 26262 is not nearly enough for aerospace
- rigorous approach can be used also for lower level safety needs
- process refinement
   - continuant:  exists (produced torque wrench)
   - occurant: has starting and ending (standard for creating accurate torque wrenchs)
   - example:  DO-178C would be considered as process, so should be considered occurant.
   - processes should only call to processes.
   - implementatoin of a process in hardware and software world.   Abstraction and processes, in functional safety.   Defining specifics of what need to happen.   Part of BOM requirement.    Needing level of safety/security in software - expressed via requirements,  specific categories are instances that fit this. 
   - test against a requirement, that references a process, which is a standard.
   - Only fulfill requirements.   All the requirements as a group, would be referencing the process. 
   - Evidence is also referencing the processes, but should be tied to specific requirement. 
- Discussion of Basil
   - testing concept is lining up with generation of evidence. 
   - capturing requirements, and then identifies test plans to run it, and then captures evidence.
- Example:  Building a paper plane
   - Hardware:  piece of paper
   - Specification(s):  What is needed to make a paper plane (plan/model/??);   How to do the folds on paper to make a plane (Organmi book with chapter on paper planes) - ** Book written by Orgami master
   - Process: 
       - All the required elements to meet the specification (ie. which folds should be done)
  - Requirements are specified for aspects of the process
  - Test plan will validate requirements (what are actions of test)
   - Action: Doing the process at a point in time (ie. manufacture of the paper plane) - capture event. Should be a series of folds made. (ie. Student trained to do folds, then applies the process, and makes plane)
   - Test: is design validation (aka implementation assurance) ie. 
      - Orgami masters has validated that the book chapter is going to yield a functional paper plane. (validated design) 
      - Teacher looks at created plane and review it's matching the drawing
   - Evidence: recording how far the plane flies:  And which Individual involed with throwing the plane.
   
- Cost of specs
  - DO-178C (Software Considerations) is $525
  - DO-254 (Hardware Considerations) is $375
  - DO-330 (Tool Qualification) is $258 (Trust of automated system)
