# SPDX FuSa Meeting 2024-05-31

## Attendees
*  Steven Carbno
* Ryan Brooks
* Alfred Strauch
* Chuck Wolber
* Kate Stewart
* Nicole Pappler

## Agenda
* New People
* Ryan Brooks to provide overview of the OSEE work, and what makes sense to align.
* pick up discussion on Evidence Class & start preliminary thoughts on additional relationship

## Notes
* Discussion - Evidence - Strictdoc format?  
   * Bernhard's prototyping.
   * Possibly make public - and able to reuse.  
   * Assessment Evidence could be a type, as could be verification evidence.
* OSEE - do alignment internal 
  * 

Requirements and Evidence Types discussion:
    * Verification method as a part of Requirements or as Evicence?
    * Verification method can vary regarding the product use case, there also can be more than one verification method per requirement
    * Verification methods: Review, Analysis, Inspection, Test, Demonstration
    * If there is is more than one Evicence Method is associated with a requirement, we might want to think about having multiple Evicences with then difference Evidence Type Objects associated with that requirement, would also allow us to create more evidence without messing with the existing ones
    * should be also capture the date and time the evidence has been created? Yes, we want to note that in the Evidence. When Evidences are created in the same time, should these Evidences be related to each other. Do we want to explicetly point this out?
    * Evidence must be associated with build, test environment, deployed environement, Evidence can become invalid with the next build
