# SPDX FuSa Meeting 2024-07-19

## Attendees
* Steven Carbno
* Nicole Pappler
* Chuck Wolber
* Ryan Brooks 
* Alfred Strauch
* Kate Stewart
* Maximillian Huber

## Agenda

## Notes
* Discussion of how we should handle test plans?   
  * Test cases might be considered as "requirements for the test" in some contexts.
  * To prove perfect coverage - use equivalence classes. 
* Being able to group requirements for test cases is something to consider.
    * For DO-178 to be done properly - test case must EXACTLY match to the requirements. 
    * Test Case --> Requirement
    * Output of Test Procedure --> Evidence
    * Test procedure should trace back to test case.
       * Plan Object - Test, Verification, ...  --> this is what will emerge as procedure. 
       * More than one test case can be used for single requirement. 
       * You can have more than one procedure (re)use a test case. 

* Important to track (already discussed) that Evidence in support of a specific requirement has been satisfied.     
   * We do have an indicator of partial evidence.   Evidence can point to other evidence. 

* "Test plan" will be updating over the time - it should be done by revisions.    Add correctness as you go along, so hence you revise.    Test plan is associated with attestation. 
   * "Test case" tells you what has been verified, and abstract into human readable terms.
   * "Test procedure" is constrained by test environment.    Test case is more abstract - what are you calling into.   Ideally a "test procedure" should be code;  but there are cases when it could be done manuualy (like in simulator).
   * Each Test procedure is affiliated with at test case.    Can't have a test procedure, without it relating to a test case. 
   * Test plan is a set of test cases, together with some metadata about the test environment. 
   
* A requirement has to be fulfilled by evidence,  we don't require linking the evidence to the test procedure; but it may be a best practice.     Should we link the requirement to the test plan or test proceedure. 
   * Test plan - should it be a top, and then linking accross?    Only map out out of test plan to test plan tree. 
   * Project plan - has specification points to test plan.... 
   
* ? how much would a plan be machine readable.
* Requirement has Qualification method - first part of plan.    Want the plans to specific requirements.
* Qualification methods on requirements and test cases. 
* Links need to be machine readable, but there isn't formalization for these plans, so keeping it as a pointer to a doc, with meta data seems like the right first steps. 
