  - Attendance: 11
  - Lead by Kirsten Newcomer

<!-- end list -->

  - Minutes of previous meeting were not reviewed

## Special Presentation - Jack Manbeck

  - Jack spoke about Texas Instrument’s (TI) process for generating and
    content of the manifest (attribution) file. Below are my notes from
    the presentation. Jack, please send corrections as needed\!\!

<!-- end list -->

  - Jack shared an example file in HTML format. There is a section for
    licenses and TI is considering replacing this section with an SPDX
    document showing file-level data.

<!-- end list -->

  - TI considered using the yocto integration to generate SPDX files,
    but the output was too big. They decided to scale back and start
    with the project and a more narrow scope.

<!-- end list -->

  - The goal is for any engineer to be able to generate an SPDX
    document. Which means tooling that is easy to use and integrated
    with multiple build tools and / or CI tools. It also needs to run on
    multiple platforms.

<!-- end list -->

  - There are a series of steps in the TI process
      - Grab OSS and evaluate for use. It doesn’t make sense to generate
        SPDX at this time although you need some of that info to
        evaluate the open source. But things that SPDX requires change
        too quickly, such as location of the file, checksum (bug fixes
        to file).
      - So, it makes more sense to generate the SPDX file when you’re
        ready to ship
      - Then you have to edit the doc; it’s not usable as is, in part
        due to incomplete copyright strings, or possibly extracted
        license text
      - If files need to be edited, or the code needs to be re-built,
        the SPDX file needs to be re-generated and then re-edited. So, a
        tool that retains and re-applies previous edits that still apply
        is very much needed.
      - Would like to share / re-use generated SPDX docs, but the best
        way to share isn’t clear.
      - TI is looking at SPDX 2.0 and considering whether relationships
        between generated SPDX docs can help
      - Don’t want to have to use multiple tools for compliance and SPDX
      - Consider SPDX to be a good supplement to their manifest file but
        doesn’t replace it.
      - They still need to vet the process and polish
      - Jack mentioned a copyright snippet example where the output was
        not good enough. They’re evaluating different tools to use. They
        like the SPDX tools from UNO.
      - They’d like, in some cases, to provide file by file list which
        could be done through a link to SPDX doc.
      - They’re looking at Fossology and SPDX plugin. Also mentioned
        that it would be nice to get an idea of license spread at the
        beginning.

<!-- end list -->

  - Matt mentioned additional tools built by UNO, including DoSocks
    (spelling?) and Gary’s maven plugin which generates SPDX docs based
    on maven POM content.

<!-- end list -->

  - Kate mentioned Fossology 3.0 and Deb sources as well as FOSDEM and
    notion of a shared database of SPDX documents.

<!-- end list -->

  - Matt said that the UNO tools don’t store SPDX docs but instead store
    the data so the docs can be generated when required. Jack sees this
    as the right approach.

<!-- end list -->

  - TI’s plan is to first build a repeatable process and then they can
    do more to enhance it. The checksum in SPDX documents is a challenge
    because files change right up to the last minute.

<!-- end list -->

  - Dave Marr commented that the model he’s interested in is having SPDX
    perpetuate through a development cycle with minimum impact on the
    team. Would like to be able to check code in with meta-data so that
    the meta-data travels with the file.

<!-- end list -->

  - Gary said that he’s seen this approach both work and not work. Tried
    an integration with IDEs but there was too much change for it to
    work. Says the Maven plugin seems to be pretty effective in
    maintaining the meta-data and the integration recalculates the
    checksum. Solution does assume that the data in the POM is correct.
    POMs are stored in the repository and the SPDX is generated at build
    time. Developers are used to editing POM files.

<!-- end list -->

  - Jack commented that in a structured environment that works, but TI
    needs a solution that works across multiple environments.

<!-- end list -->

  - Dave commented that training for engineering is needed — when you
    add or subtract content, here’s what you need to do.

<!-- end list -->

  - Jilayne would like engineering training for lawyers, with graphs,
    not just text.

<!-- end list -->

  - Everyone thought this would be a good overall topic for Collab
    Summit.

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary

  - Team is continuing discussions on External References. The work is
    close to being ready for a broader review.
  - Joint tech / legal call on license markup planned for 2/9.
  - Discussions happening with Richard Fontana at OSI

## Outreach Team Report - Jack/Kate

  - Planning for Collab Summit: 1/2 day Tech team and 1/2 day Legal,
    with SPDX “Office Hours” for folks to bring questions, issues.
  - Good mentions of SPDX @ FOSDEM
  - LF says new website is close to being staged for review; Jack hopes
    it will be up for Collab Summit
  - Planning webinars in first quarter. Pierre has volunteered and the
    first will be on the license list.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne/Paul

  - Working on proposal for license matching
  - Working on tighter communication with OSI

## Cross Functional Topics - Kate

  - Save the date for Collab Summit in Lake Tahoe- March 29-31
      - <http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/collaboration-summit/program/about>
  - Google Summer of Code: Gary will be coordinating for the SPDX team.
    We’re looking for ideas for good projects.

## Attendees

  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Gary O’Neall, SourceAuditor
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Kate Stewart, Linux Foundation
  - Pierre LaPointe, nexB
  - Jilayne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Jack Manbeck, TI
  - Dave Marr, Qualcomm
  - Eric Weddington
  - Hassib Khanafer, Protecode
  - Matt Germonprez, UNO

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
