# SPDX Cryptography Meeting 2025-08-20

###### tags: `ToDo` `Question` `Agreed`

:::info
- **Where:** Remote through [Jitsi](https://meet.jit.si/SPDXCryptoMeeting)
- **When:** Every Wednesday at 14:00 UTC for 30 minutes
- References:
   - Past [MoMs](https://github.com/spdx/meetings/tree/main/cryptography)
   - Crypto algorithms [list](https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms)

## Attendees

[ ] Bob Martin
[x] Alfred Strauch
[x] Steven Carbno
[x] Agustín Benito Bethencourt
[ ] Quique Goñiz


## Agenda

1. News
2. OSS EU
3. List

:::

## MoM

### News

* All comments done by Alexios addressed. Asked to re-review them. [PR 15](https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/pull/15) 
   * As result, we openned two tickets [17](https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/issues/17) and [16](https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/issues/16)
* Sent a mail about our existance to the OpenChain Tooling Group
* No meeting next week. Next meeting on Sept 3rd
* Created [a ticket](https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/issues/19) for external references only WIP
* Proposal: usage of tags and project on Github to classify the tickets and create a canvas of the backlog vs WIP
   * Let's start with labels. Ask Alexios `Agreed`
      * Labels: enhancement, bug, question and documentation 

### OSS EU

* Is there an SPDX activity there?
   * Where should we ask. We do not know. Let's ask Bob `ToDo`   
* Matias Daloia, from SCANOSS, will briefly talk about the list, including a call for participation, during his lightning talk. Agustin created the content for him.

### List

* A small improvement is required [ticket 18](https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/issues/18)
* Next steps: 
   * two tickets [17](https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/issues/17) and [16](https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/issues/16)
   * OID ticket [20](https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/issues/20) WIP
* How do we deal with aliases? `Question`
   * How do we decide about the canonical name/id? What is Cyclone DX solving this?
