# SPDX Cryptography Meeting 2025-08-06

###### tags: `ToDo` `Question` `Agreed`

:::info
- **Where:** Remote through [Jitsi](https://meet.jit.si/SPDXCryptoMeeting)
- **When:** Every Wednesday at 14:00 UTC for 30 minutes
- References:
   - Past [MoMs](https://github.com/spdx/meetings/tree/main/cryptography)
   - Crypto algorithms [list](https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms)

## Attendees

[x] Bob Martin
[x] Alfred Strauch
[x] Steven Carbno
[x] Agustín Benito Bethencourt
[ ] Quique Goñiz


## Agenda

1. News
2. Where does this group fit?
3. Properties description
4. AOB

:::

## MoM

### News

* PR got merge. We have a new list https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms
* We have a new PR about the properties description: https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/pull/15/files 
    * Call for review and approval `ToDo`
*  Intro about this group to the different SPDX Groups done through their mailing lists.

### Where does this group fit?

Discussion about which profile we fit in or if we should have our own profile.
* Bob will ask the SC to provide time to present this group into tomorrow's SPDX General Meeting, as a trigger for this discussion there.
    * Bob sent the message already
    * Agustin will prepare 3 slides for a very short presentation `ToDo`

### Properties description

* We feel comfortable with the current class/subclass description `Agreed`
    * Participants took time during the meeting to review and approve the PR https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/pull/15
    * Next step: ping Alexios for review/merge
* Added the OID entry to the ticket https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/issues/8 so it works as reminder that this is a property we think it is needed.

### AOB

* Agustin will participate in today's AI meeting to present the group. `ToDo`
* Agustin will notify that the meeting will be canceled due to OSS EU, the fourth week of August `ToDo`

