# SPDX Cryptography Meeting 2025-06-25

## Participants

* Victor Lu
* Bob Martin
* Agustin
* Steven Carbno
* Karsten

## Agenda

* Comments on PR12 https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/pull/12
* Attributes description https://github.com/spdx/crypto-algorithms/issues/8

## MoM

Awareness and socialising what we are doing

* Contacting Michael Osbourne from IBM?
* Steven has talked to some people but he thinks we will need content for people to join
* We should socialise within SPDX:
   * General call
   * Website describing the group
   * Bob is a co-chair of the outreach team

Victor asks for the second milestone of this group.

* Our focus is the crypto list
* Victor suggest to put some effort in writing down what we are doing in this group and why
   * Bob reminds the participants about the use cases we all agree as initial target: export control and post-quantum readiness, which starts with crypto declaration
   * Agustin will create a charter draft

keySize

* Discussion about keySize standards vs detected. There are cases where those two are different and other cases where there is no max/min value. How do we reflect this?
   * Do we want to make a judgement on what is the standard vs what is what the consumer does? Or do we include the standard and also include what has been detected?
   * Maybe we need something more complex than a value to express the key size.
   * The detection use case is a good one
   * observedkeySize vs commonkeySize and specifiedkeySize
   * Input from cycloneDX https://cyclonedx.org/use-cases/cryptographic-key/
