# SPDX Outreach Team Meeting, July 28 2021

## Attendees

* Sebastian Crane
* Joshua Marpet
* Kate Stewart

## Regrets

* Bob Martin

## Agenda

* Upcoming conferences for SPDX-related presentations
* SPDX 'Plugfest in a Box' - Joshua, Kate

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 21st of July approved**

### Plugfest in a Box

Joshua is turning Plugfest into 'Docfest'

Kate shared the new logo for Docfest with Sebastian and Joshua

Kate has created a registration form for a September Docfest; will publish shortly

Kate shared instructions for running the Docfest in a Box

### Linux Foundation 'Supply Chain Town Hall' event

Kate - registration is free of charge and open to all

Kate gave an overview of the presentations

### Upcoming conferences

* [Linux Foundation Supply Chain Town Hall](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/supply-chain-town-hall/register/)

* [Linux Foundation SupplyChainSecurityCon North America](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/supplychainsecuritycon-north-america/)

* [Linux Foundation Member Summit - Call for Proposals](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/lf-member-summit/program/cfp/)

### Materials to counter doubt about the capabilities of SPDX

Joshua - we need a FAQ and videos

FAQ starting point:

* Formalize SPDX SBOM adoption goals
* SBOM for critical infrastructure

Kate - safety certification - not for just software direction with 3.0 - compliance and information and security and hardware, etc.

Joshua is building up podcast and YouTube channel.

## Topics for next meeting

* FAQs
* Materials for press release about ISO/IEC 5962 standard
* Formalize SPDX SBOM adoption goals

## Action points

* Video editing capabilities - look to see if Shane Coughlan can help
* Announce no meeting on August 18th (conflict with LF Supply Chain Town Hall)
