# SPDX Outreach Team meeting, August 25, 2021

## Attendees

* Sebastian Crane
* Kate Stewart
* Bob Martin

## Regrets

* Joshua Marpet

## Agenda

* Approval of minutes from last meeting
* ISO/IEC 5962-related outreach
* Wikipedia page updates
* IRC channel cloaks
* AOB

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 11th of August approved**

### ISO-related outreach

The SPDX ISO standard was released a day prior to the meeting.

Bob - we should mention 3.0 so that people don't assume that SPDX stops at ISO

Kate - 2.2 is sufficient; don't wait for 3.0

Sebastian - CCC conference call for proposals will probably open soon; possibility for SPDX-related presentations: <https://www.ccc.de/en/home>

Kate - Generating SPDX documents as part of Debian release would be very good for outreach

### Wikipedia page updates

Sebastian - Wikipedia entry updates have been submitted. Not very optimistic about getting editorial review before increased interest in ISO 5962.

All agreed that if no editorial review is forthcoming within 1-2 weeks, we should apply Wikipedia 'be bold' principle and merge changes into main article (with a note in talk).

Jilayne commented on the License List section of the collaborative document. There were no further suggestions, so ready to be written up.

### IRC channel

Sebastian - SPDX 'cloaks' are available; Kate to look into registering herself on Libera.Chat to claim such cloak.

Kate - can publish a tweet about the IRC channel to raise awareness of it

### AOB (SPDX Landscape page)

Discussion of the SPDX Landscape page (similar to CNFC's site). All agreed that entries can now be added in their present categories as drafted in a collaborative document.

## Action points

* Draft tweet to advertise IRC channel and send to Kate - Sebastian
* Update SPDX Landscape site - Kate
