# SPDX Outreach Team Meeting, June 21, 2021

## Attendees

* Sebastian Crane
* Jack Manbeck
* Bob Martin

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 14th of June approved**

Discussion of license for website content

Jack - Concern that CC-BY-4.0 for articles and CC-BY-3.0 for website might be confusing

Sebastian - Ideas for rebuilding the website as a static site; we could take this opportunity to license content consistently. Until then we should just be clear on website.

Discussion of other related projects and organisations such as NTIA and Open Source Security Foundation

Bob - NTIA have materials available but we me need our own decks for more SPDX-related topics

Jack - Any progress on such materials?

Bob - Not yet; may need to wait for 3.0 release; nearly there!

Bob - Timeline of SPDX 3.0 release: nearly complete, need to define documentation and default serialisation. In months, but too soon for particular date.

Jack - releasing slides at same time as 3.0 spec should be more effective

Bob - we can already talk about vision of SPDX

Sebastian - I'll see if others able to make slides at Tech Team meeting

Jack - Invite people from other groups to outreach team

Bob - that's part of the work of the NTIA outreach team. Each working group starts their meeting with an overview of what other working groups are doing to help with sync

Sebastian - can't meet on Mondays; will send Jack an email about that

Jack - Can get Sebastian an account for WordPress pending website rebuild

Sebastian will liaison with Gary O'Neal about website rebuild and bring up at General Meeting

Discussion of slides for publication and how this fits into communities that produce and use SBOMs

Jack - really keen on providing an overall view of SPDX's mission

Discussion of SPDX logo and trademark. Sebastian showed a work-in-progress for a variant of the SPDX logo, suitable for use in round profile pictures. There may be concern about protecting trademark. Jack's suggestion to have a page of official logo variants was well received. Sebastian will bring this up at SPDX Legal Team meeting for Steve Winslow's opinion.

Action points:

* Sebastian to bring up logo variants at Legal Team meeting
* Jack to coordinate potential meeting times via email
* Jack to create WordPress account for Sebastian
* Sebastian to ask for volunteers to create technical slides at SPDX Tech Team meeting
* Website rebuild to be brought up at General Meeting; Sebastian to contact Gary to further feasibility research
