# SPDX Outreach Team Meeting, August 4, 2021

## Attendees

* Sebastian Crane
* Bob Martin
* Joshua Marpet
* Kate Stewart

## Agenda

* DocFest - getting the word out & participation
* Wikipedia update
* SPDX podcasts - Kate
* Website refresh

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 28th of July approved**

### Podcast

Kate - a podcast was [requested by a user on Twitter](https://twitter.com/TimHaines/status/1422766351710449665); do we want to design something?

Joshua - would like the four on this call to participate in the podcast

Kate - we can start an outline of topics

Joshua - would use a tool called Zencastr to publish to YouTube

Sebastian - we should try with one-offs before committing to a schedule

Discussion on potential content and topics for the podcast, and interviewing the wider part of the ecosystem.

**Kate set up 2 hours for recording on 27th of August.**

Sebastian - there was a talk about SPDX at the OpenChain Japan meeting; there are license compliance topics to discuss in podcast

Joshua - we need to build up the 'onramp', and build up knowledge base. Need to be on ramp and reference manual

Bob - we need an integral and consistent story

Sebastian - sponsorship or adverts? Prefer to avoid this. No adverts in content (other than discussion of commercial services in the SPDX community)

### Website refresh

Kate - text for website needs to be refreshed to remove winces; Kate to share document with Sebastian

Existing updates: <https://github.com/seabass-labrax/spdx-license-list-faqs>

### Wikipedia entry update

Joshua - use cases need to be expanded upon

Bob - will make use case paper available on MITRE site so that we can refer to it

Sebastian - style of current draft is not encyclopaedic enough

## Action points

* Publish use case paper on MITRE site - Bob
* Create SPDX YouTube channel - Sebastian and Joshua
