# SPDX Outreach Team Meeting, October 6, 2021

## Attendees

* Joshua Marpet
* Kate Stewart
* Sebastian Crane
* Vicky Brasseur

## Regrets

* Bob Martin

## Agenda

* Approval of minutes
* Meeting times
* AOB

## Notes

Joshua - took down podcast episodes pending audio editing

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 29th of September approved**

### Announcements

Joshua - [BSides Concord, DE has CFP open](https://bsidesdelaware.com/cfp/). Would love presentations about SBOMs

JM runs this one; earlier one was cancelled

### Updated website

<https://spdx.dev> was updated by Jack Manbeck and LF.

Kate - close to getting auto-signup for members.

Discussion of where to put it on the website. Currently a WordPress site.

Sebastian made a pull request on the landscape page; Netlify may not be working so bit of a gamble to merge

We're not sure how this works; Kate will talk to folks internally

### Meeting times

Sebastian - the Outreach Team 'reboot' started these meetings in June; had a lot more people at that time.

Sebastian - they disappeared - why? Meeting time conflicts?

SC mailed the list with a reminder & asking folks for time feedback.

Kate - current meeting time is not good for me

Vicky - without urgent activities, weekly might be too much. Bi-weekly?

Sebastian - we could also free up time for Joshua to host podcast by doing it monthly

Joshua - would certainly like to do podcast frequently

Sebastian - do monthly for general outreach topics, with other monthly meeting to be about the podcast

Discussion of possible times; everyone is suggesting times and playing with <https://everytimezone.com> to see how the times work for them.

Sebastian - shall we have a different time for the podcast meetings?

General Outreach meeting: 16:00 UTC, Thursdays, starting on the 21st

**So General is one Thursday, Legal is following Thursday, Outreach is Thursday after (Oct 21st), Legal Thursday after that.**

Vicky - all SPDX Thursdays all the time, woo!

Podcast meeting scheduling is TBD. Additional collaboration between meetings will occur on the mailing list (see asynchronous discussion below).

Sebastian - given time constraints, please send agenda items to the list in advance of the meeting. Will help make the 1-hour monthly meeting go more smoothly

### Discussion of asynchronous communication methods

CryptPad: <https://cryptpad.fr/>

Will give it a try for live collaboration, but Kate would like to see an example (presentation, for instance)

Document to try it out on: <https://cryptpad.fr/slide/#/2/slide/edit/zUYI3yggdC4nl23pKecFC-w+/>

### AoB

* Kate had a keynote! Woo!
* Talk about collaboration points with REUSE
