# SPDX Outreach Team Meeting, June 14, 2021

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* Joshua Marpet
* Michael Herzog
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Sebastian Crane

## Regrets

* Jack Manbeck

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: June 7 2021 meeting minutes approved by voice vote**

Discussion of how SPDX 3.0 specification is modular

Discussion of website - front page discussion: of audiences or uses of SPDX? So Uses or Users? Or Licensing or security or provenance?

Bob - Don't lose the existing audience, add to their knowledge, but don't alienate people just coming into the audience. Different use cases, different parts of the standard, show how this work fits with other work, in LF and in other communities (NTIA, Open Security Foundation, etc)

Joshua - FAQ list of questions, each one, when clicked, brings you to the answer

Sebastian - Licensing people (who know SPDX), and newcomers, who need to understand

Bob - Make use of it, and/or be compliant with it.

Sebastian - Identify who will ask what, and potentially A/B channel their user experience (organise website into sections for different userbases) - possible?

Bob - "What's new about SPDX 3.0?" vs. What is an SBOM, how does SPDX help? Update vs newbie.

Joshua - Website homepage: not necessarily an FAQ, but a multiple layers of information

Brainstorming potential questions to be answered on website:

* What's new about SPDX 3.0?
* What is SPDX?
* Who uses it?
* What is SPDX used for?
* What could SPDX be used for?
* Why is SPDX being used? What advantages does it bring me? Why do I care?
* How do I find out more about using SPDX?
* How can I help?

Brainstorming potential audiences to be addressed on website:

* Potential adopters
* Existing adopters
* Companion efforts
* Upstream projects

Bob - SPDX 3.0 was designed such that the minimum data needed for a NTIA-style BOM forms a valid SPDX document.

Discussion that existing users of SPDX is a subset of what it could be used for. Licensing and legacy information is typical currently. However the NTIA plugfests are starting to grow the usage.

Joshua - building a product for consumption of SPDX, CycloneDX and SWID tags for an unfortunately non-disclosable reason. NDA, sorry.

Discussion of 'how do we get the word out?'

Joshua - William Bartholomew on podcasts; Joshua will get William on some podcasts - Sean Barnum, another on podcasts

Discussion of need for a website - GitHub Pages or WordPress - content creation - we need to tell the story and answer the questions

Action points:
* Joshua will look into podcasting with other SPDX working group members
* Bob will get Joshua contact info for all needed - sent
* Joshua will try to wireframe his thought about the website, single page
* Sebastian will talk to Kate Stewart about Wordpress website

Questions we need FAQ answers written for:

* What's new about SPDX 3.0?
* What is SPDX?
* Who uses it?
* What is SPDX used for?
* What could SPDX be used for? - Joshua
* Why is SPDX being used? What advantages does it bring me? Why do I care?
* How do I find out more about using SPDX?  - Sebastian
* How can I help? - Sebastian

Data license under which to put all content created:

**All agreed to use Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International, Copyright The SPDX Working Group. Individual contributors to content to be credited under content title or in seperate credits if many contributors**
