# SPDX Outreach Team Meeting, June 28, 2021

## Attendees

* Sebastian Crane
* Joshua Marpet
* Bob Martin
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau

## Regrets

* Jack Manbeck

## Agenda

* Approval of minutes from last meeting
* Update about SPDX logos and trademarks
* 'Plugfest in a Box' - Joshua
* AOB

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 21th of June approved**

Report of action points from last meeting:

* Logo/Trademarks: Sebastian brought up at Legal Team meeting. All OK for now; Steve Winslow will get Linux Foundation lawyers involved and CC SPDX Outreach mailing list
* Website rebuild - Gary not available last week due to NTIA Plugfest conflict
* Volunteers for making technical slides - not available last week (same as above)

Discussion of slides that Bob produced; they are two years old but possibly still relevant. Based on 3T-SBOM's mission originally.

Joshua - Our job is not be technically correct 100% of the time; merely to spread the word of SPDX

Bob - Spread the *right* gospel!

Joshua - We should spread the 'why' and the 'what' but not the 'how'. Tech Team delivers the 'how', but we should point to it in the outreach materials.

Discussion of Asia Team plugfests. Will start ASAP; Kate Stewart is moving forward with this.

Joshua - There might be other groups wanting to do SPDX-related plugfests. Could we make a 'plugfest in a box'?

Discussion of different formats and whether SPDX should be pushing for compatibility with those or just tooling for SPDX.

Bob - Fine with NTIA's approach of focus on compatibility

Sebastian - Isn't the SWID specification paywalled? This could be a problem for running plugfests.

Bob - It is, but everything you need to know is published without charge to users

Discussion of SBOM formats with relation to the NTIA's work.

Joshua - There is great appetite for plugfests as activities to have at developer conferences. Primarily consumption of SBOM documents.

Sebastian - There is a limitation of tooling to perform/work at plugfests. Perhaps we can build hackathon style suggestions/activities.

Bob - Serialization issues - they can vary from model to model

Sebastian - Example of simplicity being favoured by developers: Wireguard chose a fixed length cryptography and fixed length fields for everything.

Bob shared paper by MITRE about SBOMs: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1H-o2sLNsj5Az2tyRiHRY3tXle7-2Yj1u/view?usp=sharing

Discussion of putting this paper or excerpts from it in the website, and using it to spark discussion about use cases.

Joshua - Mandate: proselytize the value of SBOM's, SPDX, and the ecosystem in general. Also to spark discussion about use cases, inspire new products and services, etc. catalyse more ecosystem

Discussion of suitable meeting times in light of conflicts on Mondays for Sebastian and Jack.

**Those present concurred that 15:00 UTC on Wednesdays is a suitable time, subject to Jack's agreement. The next Outreach Team meeting would be on the 14th of July if this is the case.**

Action points:

* Joshua will contact Allan Friedman (NTIA) and produce initial documents regarding 'plugfest in a box' idea
