# SPDX Outreach Team Meeting, June 7, 2021

## Attendees

* Jack Manbeck
* Sebastian Crane
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* Joshua Marpet

## Notes

Outreach team used to be Business Team; purpose was to get businesses more involved in SPDX. Then renamed Outreach team to get more community adoption of SPDX.

Discussion about what the Outreach team should be focused on; what charter should it have?

Bob - originally the message was 'adopt SPDX', but that isn't as relevant with SPDX 3.0

Joshua - Who should we be talking to?

Bob - There are three main groups: Developers; implementation at the technical level, and and users of SBOMs, and other activities. People who would use the various flavors of SBOM, why does SPDX fit their corp objectives? Other activities that need to be engaged in SBOM, use SBOMS, rely on, leverage, etc SBOMS

Sebastian - FOSS - many associate SPDX with the license list, license matching, documents. Corporate users are more focused on the security elements.

Joshua - I want to add Compliance and Information provenance to SPDX

Jack - people focus on the license and sources - these users have been our target audience. I always pushed for us to develop an ecosystem diagram, at what layers, and who uses what, and WHY! Traditionally understanding is the biggest issue. Outreach has not been done in a tangible way.

Bob - our job is to make sure they have the tools to do this as smoothly as possible. Don't implement some part of SPDX that wont fulfil the functionality they're looking for.

Jack - set the expectations:

Collateral needed:
Goals:

Bob - profiles, the use of profiles can help us to differentiate the use cases

Sebastian - FSFE's REUSE does SPDX license identifiers very well; we shouldn't duplicate their work

Bob - many profiles are easy to implement

Alexios - SPDX has an image problem; people who are involved see the truth that SPDX is primarily about SBOMs.

Bob - REUSE needs to be supported in 3.0, so they can continue to do the license identifier work

Joshua - Two groups of people, developers and users of supply channel - are we missing anyone?

SBOM - Users - Executive risk decision to procure SPDX - 3 communities - We need to support and make that job easier of making SPDX part of the SBOM universe.

Sebastian - we need package archives to implement SPDX, lest the SBOM gets dropped half way down the supply chain when packages are distributed

Bob (?) - Package archives - distro and OS manufacturers. - if we get Canonical, Microsoft, and IBM/Red Hat

Bob - Depiction of what NTIA are working on - diagram of users and relations

Joshua - For each audience are messaging will have to be different. Then we need to figure out what messaging method we need - conferences, webinars etc.

Sebastian - we are clearly coming in with different perspectives, and that's good! We should identify each of our own directions that we can speak out to, and work with that.

Jack - we should lock down our identified audiences

**All agreed that 14:00 UTC on Monday is a good time**

Sebastian - Able to make this time regularly; Jack could email about Sebastian potentially chairing the meetings

**Jack Manbeck will invite to weekly meetings for next few weeks**

Joshua - Final points that we should cement our understanding of our audience

Asynchronous communication with the SPDX-Outreach Mailing list, Gitter spdx-org, IRC #spdx on Libera.chat

#### Mailing list

* [Mailing list archives](https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-outreach/topics)
* `Spdx-outreach+subscribe@lists.spdx.org`

#### Chat on Gitter and IRC

* `#spdx` on libera.chat - either use an IRC client or use the [web chat](https://web.libera.chat/#spdx)
* [spdx-org/Lobby](https://gitter.im/spdx-org/Lobby) on Gitter
