# SPDX Outreach Team meeting, Nov 18, 2021

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* Henk Birkholz
* Joshua Marpet
* Kate Stewart
* Sebastian Crane
* VM (Vicky) Brasseur

## Agenda

* Minutes approval
* Landscape page
    * Update from Sebastian and Kate
    * Adding Tern to page
* SPDX Podcast
    * Update from Joshua re. Asia team
    * Branding and marketing (logos etc.)
* Wikipedia page
    * Finalising version history section
* AOB

## Notes

### Landscape page

Kate & SC working on the [landscape page](https://landscape.spdx.dev). The work is happening in the [landscape GitHub repo](https://github.com/spdx/sbom-landscape).

Added a bunch of tools, but hit build problems. Chris Aniszczyk has pointed them at a resource to help. SC has opened a GitHub issue but no movement on that yet.

Kate - opportunity to make taxonomy of SPDX-compatible tooling; could do filtering on the website

Henk - there is no coordination relating to SPDX 3.0 tooling right now

Sebastian - got response from Rose Judge of Tern project; has got logo for Landscape page

Kate will merge existing pull requests despite failing builds. Build succeeded after merging.

Joshua - can we add extra categories for Supporters, Contributors etc.?

Kate - yes; it's based on CNFC landscape so the functionality is there

Vicky volunteers her help with the Landscape page!

Suggestion to add issues when people come up with ideas of what to add to the landscape.

Talk about categories ("neighbourhoods") that should be in the landscape

* supply chain integrity / transparency

* claims (remote attestation)

* software composition analysis (submechanism for creating a claim)

* license compliance

* SBOM

* platform trustworthiness


### SPDX Podcast

JM with the podcast updates!

Figured out technical problems. Have engaged a video editor to fix existing videos

Vicky - can create amusing outtakes from the existing unsynched videos before fixing them. ;-)

Will be filming episodes with SPDX Asia.

Plan is to record podcast twice a month.

#### Blog posts

Japanese contingent (SPDX Asia) has asked for blog posts. They'll translate.

JM will send info to the Outreach mailing list.

### Logos

SC has collected some. One was turned into a round version & needs trademark review

There's also an SPDX documents logo

VMB will start something to collect logos in GitHub

### Ambassadors programme

Would like to list these on the main website

Will coordinate this on the mailing list

### 3.0 support

VMB: Should probably come up with a plan to support this

Most of our work is for this, but better to be explicit & make an actionable plan

Can work on this in upcoming meetings

### Wikipedia page

Reviewing the [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1juDGtOa24QsJtKUb1i0bsFrFbUZ3bjtZmmCADImQolM/edit)

Sebastian - Is the history section complete? Ready to go to WP?

Reviewing (and resolving!) some questions in the history.

Vicky - Looks like it's pretty much ready to roll, after one last correction... which Kate did during the meeting so we're now golden.

### AOB

Chatting, because we're all pretty swell and like each other

## Decisions

1. Use [issues in spdx/outreach](https://github.com/spdx/outreach/issues) to track requests for website changes. Tag Kate & Jack.
2. Decided to upload version history to Wikipedia

## Action points

- [ ] Joshua will send SPDX Asia blog info to the Outreach mailing list
- [ ] Joshua will send podcast scheduling Doodle poll to the mailing list
- [ ] Sebastian will get logos to Kate
- [ ] Sebastian to upload version history section to Wikipedia
- [ ] Kate will check with lawyers about logo â„¢
- [ ] VMB send PRs to reorg/start the logo collection in github
- [ ] Sebastian will send info to Jack & Kate to get the website updated with IRC info, etc.
- [ ] VMB start mailing list thread about ambassadors program
- [ ] VMB will draft an ambassadors program doc
- [ ] VMB email about spdx/outreach repo team/access
