# SPDX Outreach Team Meeting - October 21, 2021

## Attendees

* Kate Stewart
* Sebastian Crane
* Vicky Brasseur

## Agenda

* Minutes approval
* SBOM Landscape
* Wikipedia page (version history discrepancy)
* Podcast planning meeting
* Tools page
* AOB
* Next meeting time

## Notes

**Approval of minutes from last meeting: minutes from SPDX Outreach Team meeting on 6th of October approved**

Will merge minutes once GitHub wakes up.

### Kate's report on All Things Open

Her first one!

Was good to present to a room of people; get better energy from it

Presented about Zephyr but worked in references to SPDX

### SBOM Landscape Page

<https://landscape.spdx.dev/>

SC [sent a PR](https://github.com/spdx/sbom-landscape/pull/7) to test things out, adding REUSE.

Site is generated from a a single file: `landscape.yml`. Multiple PRs at once might end up with merge conflicts, so beware (or be ready to fix them).

KS merged the PR during the call, then we're going to have a little watch party to see whether the site updates accordingly.

Eventually the landscape updated, but REUSE only appears on the card display, not the overall landscape.

Presumably there's another file we also need to update? NOPE! Just a refresh.

It works!

### SPDX Tools Page

<https://spdx.dev/resources/tools>

KS suggestion: strike out current text, instead ask people to contact us to have tools added

SC suggests getting an iframed landscape displayed here? KS can ask.

Move the Tool Classification to the top level of the Tools page. Also use this classification for the landscape.

SPDX Community Tools is a bit confusing. Will need to rename that or something.

The contents of the Google Doc will go under Open Source Tools.

KS: Migrate a lot of the open source tools to the landscape, then just show the landscape?

Appreciate the way that [CycloneDX does it](https://cyclonedx.org/tool-center).

### Website bug!

Front page of spdx.dev has widgets for "Learn", "Using SPDX", and then another "Learn". The two Learn widgets link to different content and have different logos, but the same text.

### Wikipedia page

Having a look at the Google Doc about this.

Appears to be a discrepancy in the dates for the version history around v2.1.1. GitHub to the rescue!

Trying to dig through the release tags, but GitHub is still having a bad day.

Checking the mailing list for announcements about v2.1.1.

The [notes from the general meeting on 2016-11-03](https://wiki.spdx.org/view/General_Meeting/Minutes/2016-11-03#Tech_Team_Report_-_Kate.2FGary) confirm v2.1 released.

General minutes from 2016-09-01 says PDF available for the review, so was released after that. Meaning 2016-11 is the release date for v2.1. Can use that general meeting link for the Wikipedia references.

Checking GitHub tags for v2.1.1 for the spec. Looks like May 2018 is the way to go. Verifying in the general meeting minutes. Stepped through months in 2018 from May forward. Dropped off the minutes for several months. Content was complete in the 2018-05 timeframe. Was no press release for it, so no Wikipedia reference.

May remove this from Wikipedia entry, since v2.1.1 was a no-op from a content point of view. Was mostly there to make collaboration easier.

Will keep it in the WP page, link to the general meeting stuff from 2018-05.

Will put release history in a table then list highlights in prose below it. (a'la Ubuntu).

## Action Points

* KS: Contact LF Wordpress wizards about maybe getting the landscape added to the tools page
* KS: File ticket to get the Learn/Using/Learn thing fixed on spdx.dev
* KS: Document how to file a ticket with LF IT so all of us can do it if needed
* SC: Work on the landscape page (ping KS for PR merge)
    * Remove docsy from the landscape (was only there as an example)

## Topics for next meeting

* Revisit landscape and website tools page
