# SPDX General Meeting Minutes - August 3, 2023

## Administrative
* Lead by Rose Judge
* Minutes from last meeting to approve:  https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/372
  * Approved

## Presentation from Max Huber about SPDX Python Tools Improvement
* Updates made to: https://github.com/spdx/tools-python
* Latest release is v0.8.0 which doesn't look like a major release but has a lot of new features
* Biggest features:
  * Work with multiple versions of SPDX (2.2 and 2.3) + infrastructure to support 3.0 when it is released.
  * Already contains experimental implementation of 3.0
  * Support for parsing and generation of all major formats (minus spreadsheets)
  * Stability improvements
  * Full support of license expressions
  * Other projects have adopted: i.e. Scancode, Tern
* Call to action: please use and give feedback
* Future Development:
  * Working further on SPDX 3.0 Integration
    * PR open which automates the generation of code based on machine readable specification of SPDX 3.0
  * Want to use this library to test implementation proposals (i.e. for JSON-LD)
* Thanks from Gary for Max and his team's work
* Contact Max with any questions: maximilian.huber@tngtech.com 

## Tech Team Report - Kate/Gary/WIlliam 
* Core & Software Profiles - William/Gary/Kate
  * Decisions made:
    * Agree to head towards enabling profile conformance point made up of restrictions to existing classes and properties. 
    * Support "External properties restrictions" on profile-level .md files
    * New Definitions: 
      * Profile Team - used as areas of interest,  organizing into teams.
      * Profile Namespace - grouping together "new" classes, properties & enumerations.
      * Profile Conformance Point - Additional restrictions on the model that state if you claim to support the profile, then you must conform to these a specifications.   Fields may be in the same namespace, or not in the same namespace.
  * CreationInformation compaction approach - will be serialization specific and will not be a new profile
  * Simplified namespaces - using existing mechanisms in serializations - removes the namespace complexity from the model
  * Working on triaging the backlog of model-3 issues & PRs to get ready for -rc2.  
    * 9 PR’s merged
    * 32 issues closed 
  * Autogeneration of the documentation in progress, hoping to share a link shortly for review.
* Issue to fill in documentation: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/367 
* Security Profile - Thomas/Jeff/Rose
  * The group has been working on an example to illustrate how the different profiles would work together in SPDX 3.0. This example will be used at the OSS EU SPDX Mini Summit to show how tools may produce different profile “documents” for different use cases.
  * Written examples will be JSON format, and in github
* Licensing Profile - Steve/Alexios
  * Decisions:  
    * Moving Licensing related properties to be Relationships
    * Two separate profiles - just using license expression syntax as string, and as object model
    * Some details being worked out,  as well as a set of backlog items related to licensing.
    * Discussions around change proposal to require a mandated data liscense of CC-0.
* Build Profile - Brandon/Nisha
  * No updates
* Lite Profile - Ito/Ninjouji/Asaba/Kobota
  * Progress in finalizing the Lite profile - issues related to how we handle certain aspects in the model. Most are resolved.
   * Related issues in licensing profiles that need to be merged are the only blockers
* AI Profile -  Karen/Gopi
  * The group continues to work though AI use cases and creating sBOM SPDX 3.0 for them.  This information is scheduled to be included in a workshop at OSS EU SPDX Summit. 
  * AI Profile blog posting has been reviewed and ready for posting
  * Set of use cases to be diagram posted.
  * Roadmap for SPDX AI profile 3.1 started 
* Dataset Profile - Gopi/Kate
  * Working through examples with datasets, looking at some of the AI datasets.
  * Working through AI datasets licenses not in SPDX license list
  * Discussion of how dataset training of models should be denoted
* Functional Safety - Nicole/Kate
  * Investigating tool options to prototype requirement traceability
  * Planning webinar at end of August for ELISA community.
* Canonicalization / Serialization - Max/Gary
  * Serialization has agreed that they will support a JSON-LD serialization format, and examples have been put into repository.
  * Discussions on next serializations will start in the next meeting,  next up is JSON and simple-JSON for a lossy version.  (Issue with example code exists)
  * Discussion on compaction algorithm
* Software as a Service – Gary
  * Continuing to work through the use cases - completed many of the Supplier Infrastructure Governance
  * Working through the Customer Data Governance category
* Hardware - Kate
   * First meeting planned for August 2m5 @ 9am ET - contact Kate if interested in being added to the kickoff meeting. 
* Implementers - Rose
  * Looking into the best identifier schemes for software and how we can standardize this to eliminate ambiguity
  * Conversation around the best way for tools to indicate a dependency structure so that SBOM consumers can determine what is a direct dependency and what is a transitive dependency

## Legal Team Update - Jilayne/Steve
* License list: normally would've done release by now but haven't done it yet because the last one was late. Still deciding timing for this one.
* Change proposal around change to SPDX Data License field. If you have an opinion on this, read the meeting minutes from last week: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/main/legal/2023-07-27.md 
* In 3.0, if the DataLicense field is present, it is proposed to be included in every SPDX Element - need to think about this and focus on this; could lead to lots of duplication
  * In the logical model this is duplicated, but when people are actually writing this document you only have to do it once because of the compaction algorithm
  * Will try to schedule a joint legal and tech team call to sort this out

## Outreach Team Update - Alexios
* Working on updates to the website. Profile use cases ready to go. Working with creative talent in LF to get those posted.
* Collecting presentation information - if anyone is interested in giving SPDX relatedd presentation we now have a repo to collect that (https://github.com/spdx/outreach)
* Started working on "quick start" guides for different plugins. Gary working on Maven right now but eventually will have all ecosystems.  Working with Jordi on this.
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples

## General Announcements
* If you'll be at OSS EU,  there is an "add on event" - both In-person & Virtual for SPDX Tooling Mini Summit. Happening Monday afternoon - https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-europe/features/co-located-events/#spdx-mini-summit

## Attendees (17)
* Alfredo E
* Alex Rybak (Revernera)
* Alfred Strauch
* Gary O'Neall
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Jim Vitrano
* Joshua Watt
* Karen Bennet
* Kate Stewart
* Mark Atwood (Amazon)
* Maximilian Huber
* Michael Herzog
* Phil Odence
* Rose Judge
* Steve Winslow
* Steven Carbno
* Karen Bennet
* Steve Winslow
* Brad Goldring (GTC Law Group)
* Alex Stewart (NI)
