## Attendees

  - Jack Manbeck
  - Micheal Herzog
  - Norm Glaude
  - Scott Lamons
  - Phil Odence
  - Pierre Lapointe

## Agenda

1.  Quick update on documents in progress - Mark, Jack and Scott
2.  Survey Summary Review – Phil
3.  Any other business

## Notes

### Survey Review

Phil walked us through the survey results.

  - Around 100 responses.
  - Punchline was that more than 75% thought it was important/very
    important to have a standard for exchanging license information.
  - Mostly technical/technical management types responded.
  - Good representation world wide.
  - Good mix of big and small companies.
  - Most of the people responding were NOT SPDX participants. How do we
    reach them?
  - Should we repeat survey at other events like LinuxCon or the
    Compliance Summit? Most of the responses we got were from cross
    posting to other lists and from the LF newsletter.
  - Website and talking with people seem to be the most important ways
    we are reaching people.
  - Seems to be uncertainty as to when this will be important, even
    though they believe it will.
  - There is a perceived complexity in this.
  - Next time we do a survey how do we better get the word out.
  - Summary attached to this page for the survey.
  - Should we do a newsletter or forum for people using SPDX?
  - we had a good discussion around one of the comments which was making
    spdx data parsable from source files using short key words. This is
    an area that might be worth exploring with a cross functional team
    (legal, business and technical). Jack: I don't believe I captured
    this well. Feel free to edit if you were on the call.
  - We will share the survey results next week with the SPDX community
    and talk about them at the next general Meeting. Jack and Phil will
    post on the wiki with a summary.

### Other Business

Phil and Scott working on an SPDX article. Need to submit around first
of June. May have a drop dead date of the 15th. Scott will send outline
to Jack and Phil.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
