## Attendees

  - Jack Manbeck
  - Mark Gisi
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Phil Odence
  - Pierre Lapointe
  - Matt Germonprez
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Mike Dolan

## Agenda

1.  Survey update – Phil
2.  Requirements capture worksheet update – Mark
3.  Documents we are working on
    1.  Consuming SPDX – Jack
    2.  Producing SPDX - ? (okay I forgot who volunteered for this)
    3.  Umbrella SPDX document – Mark
4.  Any other business

## Notes

### Survey Update

  - We had about 20 some responses so far.
  - Phil will send out a summary of survey results to the business team.
    The summary will not have names or companies as the survey was
    confidential.
  - There was discussion on how long to leave the survey open. general
    consensus was that we leave it open until we hit a wall where we do
    not seem to be getting any new responses in.
  - Mike Dolan from the LF said they were going to send out a newsletter
    and they could include the survey link and a blurb. Phil was going
    to email him the information.
  - As the results need to be confidential, we can do a summary report
    after all the results are in and see what is actionable for SPDX.
  - Survey results on their raw form will not be part of the
    requirements collection we are doing due to the anonymity clause.
    The idea was that if you did not include a business or user name
    then the survey was confidential but it may not have been clearly
    explained. Therefore, if either are entered the results will be
    treated as anonymous.
  - Scott will also send out a link to the survey on the European Legal
    network mailing list.

### Requirements Worksheet

  - Mark had not started yet, too busy with the prep for Collab.
  - Debated whether requirements should be kept on wiki or on something
    like Google Docs for now. It was decided to use Google Docs for the
    raw data. At some point once the information was massaged it could
    be moved to the wiki.

### Umbrella Document

  - Mark is about 3/4 of the way done with this.

### Consuming SPDX Document

  - No update on this as Jack was busy with planning and prep for
    Collab.
  - Matt offered to help Jack with the document. he suggested that it
    include real business use cases of people consuming SPDX. It was a
    good idea and will be incorporated.
  - It was suggested that the documents share a common structure. Jack
    to send something out on that for the next meeting.

### Producing SPDX

  - It seems Scott was the one who volunteered to drive the producing
    document. No update as Scott was busy with Collab.

### Other Business

  - Jack really needs to update the calendar invite with the right call
    in code.
  - Mike Dolan from the Linux Foundation will be our new contact.
  - Matt said OpenMAMA will start using SPDX. he will be working with
    them

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
