## Attendees

  - Jack Manbeck
  - Micheal Herzog
  - Norm Glaude
  - Scott Lamons
  - Phil Odence
  - Pierre Lapointe
  - Mark Gisi
  - Jilayne Lovejoy

## Agenda

1.  None was published

## Notes

  - Discussed the adoption page and how it would be kept up to date.
    Should i be individuals or the business team, etc.,. Nothing to keep
    an individual from doing it. Consensus was to have updates to the
    adoption page done as a regular agenda item on the business team
    call.

<!-- end list -->

  - Continued discussion of best practices document which was an agenda
    item at LinuxCon. A draft outline was started at LinuxCon to
    describe areas where we could have best practices: see
    <http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/Best_Practices> . There
    was allot of of discussion on this topic.
      - What do we start with? There are bugs in bugzilla that are
        tagged for a best practice document. Could start there.
      - Who will do it?
      - How do we say something is a best practice?
  - Mark Gisi made a proposal for a process for something to become a
    best practice. Basically we can not say something is a best practice
    until it is widely done. Should start with a tech report or some
    other document that says this is how "we/I do it". At some point
    that could then be promoted to a best practice. All documents would
    be on a single subject so they would be concise. Roughly the process
    is:
      - Someone owns it.
      - They document it
      - Its reviewed by the community
      - Owner publishes it
      - At some point there is community consensus and it is promoted to
        a best practice.
      - Likely we would publish the documents/best practices on the SPDX
        site.
  - Mark offered to own a tracking document for these in either a
    spreadsheet or on the wiki. He will work with Jack on a wiki
    approach to see if that works. Fall back would be a spreadsheet.

## Actions

1.  Jilayne to send to Jack license list updates for the collaboration
    page.
2.  Phil and Jack to add Samsung to the adoption page.
3.  Jack to give Mark a quick wiki tutorial.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
