Jan. 23, 2018

## Attendees

  - Thomas Steenbergen
  - Alexios Zavras
  - Trevor King
  - Bradlee Edmondson
  - Steve Winslow
  - Kate Stewart
  - Yev Bronshteyn

## SPDX 2.1.1

  - Context: This should be the same as 2.1 other than typos, bugs and
    formatting fixes.

### Pull request \#17

  - use of … vs elipse symbol. Decision to go "..." as will be easier to
    maintain
  - 3.9.4 Verification code changes need to be reverted, add to 2.2 to
    discuss.
  - Roll back camel case changes (should stay as is in RDF)
  - Investigate - Chapter 13 references.
  - 3.10.7 - RDF examples, revert.
  - 3.14.4 - missing backtick.
  - 3.15.4 - double check this one.
  - don’t change \<\> to {} in 2.1.1 — discuss this for 2.2.
  - 3.17.1 make it match the .pdf version. as close as possible.
  - 3.21 using backticks preference. Going from 3.21.1 to 3.21.6 (format
    bug)

### Pull request \#23

  - move to 2.2 - get Yev’s input on it.

### Pull request \#40

move to 2.2

### Pull request \#68

  - Agree to be added as 2.1.1

### Pull request \#7

  - Will be done.

### Pull request \#1

  - Will happen automatically as soon as document generated

### Pull request \#18

  - Using bold instead of linking to subsections, better
    maintainability.
  - Trevor concerned about link maintenance with Markdown? Thomas
    waiting for a link checker to be open sourced. Will be a plugin.

### Pull request \#57

  - need to get input from Gary & Yev as to what resolution should be.

### Pull request \#63

  - move to 2.2 (was 2.1.1)

### TODO

  - add bug to add Thomas and Trevor’s name to contributors at start of
    2.1.1 version.
  - Feb 13th. Signing off on 2.1.1 - work on via email to then.
  - Open question - does it make sense to put out an SPDX document for
    the specification and its build tools? Probably punt to 2.2

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
