July 17, 2018

## Attendees

  - Jim Hutchinson
  - Tushar Mittal
  - Ndip Tanyi
  - Steve Winslow
  - Kate Stewart
  - Thomas Steenberg

## SPDX GSoC Updates

  - NDip – clarifying travis CI with Gary last week.

Tests for plugin itself. Working on unit tests. Example projects have
been used with plug in. Worry: how interact with generated during the
tests, solved.

  - Tushar – Sorry my internet was not stable, so posting my work
    updates here. Last week I completed the diff feature, which the user
    can use to review the changes and the validate feature which
    validates the XML text against the license schema. Currently there
    is a small bugs in the diff feature and also I need to implement
    pulling of the schema from the repo when user uses the validate
    feature. For the pull request feature I asked one of the github
    members, so he said that one bot account is allowed for the users
    and organizations. So I'll be exploring the Github apps and figuring
    out which method works better. Will be post my views on that.
  - Yash - see Gitter
  - Gallo – see Gitter

## SPDX 2.1.1 Version of Specification

  - Thomas working through options PDF generation, issue with hard line
    breaks.

## SPDX 2.2 - Representing JSON / YAML / XML

  - Preference from the participants was to move away from documenting
    each format for each field, and only document when special case
    information is needed. Now that we have the specification on github,
    and rendered on <https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/> we have more
    options.
  - Instead provide full examples for each section of the 5 formats for
    per chapter longer examples. Highlight “gotchas”, but in interface
    of web page, show real examples. showing full thing. YAML, JSON,
    XML, RDF, <TAG:VALUE>, desire to see all formats side by side.
  - In terms of examples to use, we want something smaller, so selection
    is important. consider Timezone.js from NPM, file is 200 lines, 150
    lines from relationships, 3 dependencies. Other suggestions welcome.
  - Jim suggests we also look into compatibility tests in this area as
    we go forward. In particular he's interested in seeing some of the
    lessons from FUZZ testing applied here. He will come back with
    further proposals in future.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
