June 12, 2018

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Steve Winslow
  - Krys Nuvadga
  - Alexios Zavras
  - Tushar Mittal
  - Rohit Lodha
  - Ndip Tanyi
  - Kate Stewart
  - Michael Herzog

## GSoC

  - Ndip - done with download for npm & python modules; working on
    scanner module this week, and hope to finish.
  - Tushar - XML tree based editor, click on buttons, on attribute name
    and values, able to let beginners edit document. Rohit has suggested
    some updates and new features, and adding in some tests for editors.
    Its on the xml branch on spdx online tools repository. Question: for
    tree & textbase editors - textbase editors. Gary suggests rather
    than keypress, when change focus. Will be working on tree-based this
    week. Will be presenting in general meeting on July 12th.
  - Krys; Ndip and Tushar - is it possible to give a daily update on
    gitter? Both agree to try to do better.

## 2.2

  - continue Package URL - issue \# 53 , pull request \#54. 5\#4
    contains redesigned external reference which would make it a 3.0
    issue. Decision to continue this when Trevor, Yev, & Philippe can be
    on call.
  - \#3 - need discussion to with legal. Steve to bring it up on call.
  - \#6 - per discussion in Sonoma - break out appendix. Discussion to
    handle this in 3.0 rather than 2.2
      - For 2.2, we’ll just update license list to the most current. and
        then drop for 3.0. We need to open an issue (Steve opened \#89),
        to track the updating of the examples to reference the latest
        version of the license list for the short form identifiers (ie.
        GPL.20 -\> GPL-2.0-only)
      - Suggest doing the PR to update this after the next version of
        the license list comes out aim for after 3.2 comes out.
      - New issue for updating license references to match license list:
        <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/89>
  - \- \#12 - agree it makes sense.
      - Test tool, dev tool - separate out
      - see rest of comments in the Issue.

<!-- end list -->

  - \#16 - review this next week

## Upcoming Agenda

  - June 19 - SeVA proposal, \#16
  - June 26 - \#54 & 53.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
