July 24, 2018

## Attendees

  - Ndip Tanyi
  - Steve Winslow
  - Kate Stewart
  - Philippe Ombredanne
  - Michael Herzog
  - Yev

## SPDX GSoC Updates

  - NDip -

`   working on unit tests `  
`   using colorama has conflicts `  
`   integrated with travis into plugin`  
`   started pushing up tests yesterday.`  
`   integrating plugin with an example project`  
`   NPM project being used,   fixing download hard codes.`  
`   working on more projects through the rest of the week.`

  - Tushar – see Gitter
  - Yash - see Gitter
  - Gallo – see Gitter

## SPDX 2.2 - PURL inclusion

`  Philippe:  PURL - effectively finalized.     `  
`  Contributed in Java, python, javascript, C#,  go implmentations ready     `  
`  Discussion that we should wait for a version number, before including in.    `  
`  Those on call basically ok with inclusion,   likely redundant with adding to external ids in part, need to work through proposals.`

## Improving SPDX to Support Security Ecosystem

`   Overview of NTIA workshop`  
`   Identifiers to support Security - relook at inclusion of SWIDs into 2.2`  
`   Concern raised that have to pay to see specification,  need public source.`

## Pending

  - \#53 & \#54 - need to get resolution with both Trevor & Philippe on
    call.

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
