# SPDX Tech Team meeting - 27 September, 2022

## Attendees
* Adolfo García Veytia
* Bryan Cowan
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Henk Birkholz
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Hewett
* Jeff Schutt
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Michael Herzog
* Nisha Kumar
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Sen Hastings
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Retrospective of Dublin
* Sean's items
Verified using
Extensions
Enumerations
* Food for thought from last meeting

## Notes
* Dublin Retrospective
  * Nisha SBOM Tooling BOF
    * urgency around getting recommendations around what SPDX document looks like, so parity around tools.
    * Desire for tools that do one thing, but interoperate with other tools that similar things.
    * Package identity problem - checksums and required fields.  Package URL only a step forward.
    * Discussion on what a checksum for each artifacts,  primary package purpose.
    * link to SBOM Tooling slides: <insert here>
  * Ivana sessions
    * Some good questions afterwards and follow up.   Raising awareness.
    * link to slides:  https://static.sched.com/hosted_files/osseu2022/80/Composing_the_Ultimate_SBOM_OSSEU22.pdf
  * Adolfo takeaways:
* Need to improve handling of SBOMs.   People feeling comfortable about having SBOMs, next step is going to be on how to handle them.  Process and manging them.
* Consumption tools need to in place
 * AI BOM session
     * Good feedback,
     * Training datasets, and relationships between code and training data
* SPDX Examples
    * Adolfo & Nisha are helping out with examples repo
    * Community "crowd sourcing" effort, have volunteer willing to help us with this.
    * Kate to make introductions to volunteer, and see if we can get examples crowd sourcing started.

### 3.0
* Verified using:
    * Dependency on serialization aspect.   Sean wondering if we can do this at model level.
    * David:
        * verifiedUsing always refers to non-SPDX elements ("artifacts")
        * Payload is an artifact that can be verified.
        * SpdxDocument element refers to payload and contains verifiedUsing value of the payload.
        * Canonicalization allows a single hash to apply to logical elements without regard to serialization format. It is accomplished by serializing one or more logical elements into a virtual payload in the canonical format, then hashing that virtual payload and recording the result in SpdxDocument.
Not a blocker, as we can take a 2.3 SPDX file, and hash that file, then verify elements within it. Verified using is looking at this. Canonicalization can give single hash for a payload, but not necessary to solve problem for purely logical thing.
    * Nisha: Content of artifact or content of description of artifact?
    * Discussion of external reference (pointer to other information, not expecting to parse), compared to external map (extension of knowledge graph)
* Serialization feedback to come back to general tech meeting.
    * Relationship types defined
    * Interested to seeing the plan.   Knowing what's in enumeration?
    * Request:  Canonicalization group to come and present whole plan, before claim doneness.   Next few weeks.
* Extension Points
  * defining abstract classes within namespace relative.
  * considered opaque to SPDX community.  No binding requirements on consumers, just a blob.
  * Property on element should stay in core, and abstraction should be in core, but no one is required to define.
  * William, don't want to require people to define a schema.  Just want to put data in, and since in their URI, they take requirements.   Sean: Validation would require that extension could be anything.  Consistency of use, a bit more challenging, but leaving it open in beginning is find.  William:  thinking about internal use cases.  Producing different content to be share externally.    Avoiding pushback   David agrees tradeoff, and internal folk may want to get away with more.  Conformance to standard.
    * William: The other great use for extensions is experimenting with data structures before you add them to the SPDX spec.
    * Some discussion about canonicalization and extensions - William believes we should be able to pass it through.   Henk: +1 to extentions have to be seen as static pass through, or they'll break things.   In absense of a schema - string is a string.
    * Maximillian:  advocating for extensions to just be in profile.   Sets of tools using document.
    * Sean requesting that Maximillian, Sebastian, David, Henk create an example of where the issue with extensions?   David - considering using CBOR as canonical format;   William: restrictive subset to datatypes allowed in model.
    * Max: Concerns raised around canonicalization of PURLs.   Extensions.
CPE v2.3 https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GOVPUB-C13-c213837a04c3bcc778ebfd420c6a3f2a/pdf/GOVPUB-C13-c213837a04c3bcc778ebfd420c6a3f2a.pdf has a schema (Well-Formed Name) that must be understood in order to canonicalize or translate CPE instances across serializations.  The binding discussion is educational, and it applies to all extensions that could have both string and structure (object property) bindings/serializations.  This is true of types as simple as IP subnets, which consist of two properties: an IP address and a netmask prefix length.
Open vs. Closed:
    * Producing and consuming software treats extensions and enumerations as closed. In order to process instances they must be defined by the model in use by the software.
    * The SPDX standard model treats elements and enumerations as extensible and provides a well-defined extension mechanism.
    * Communities of interest can define model extensions according to the standard mechanism, make their extensions known to off-the-rack software, and that software can then fully support community-specific instances.
