# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2022-11-29
## Attendees
* Adolofo Garcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Bryan Cowan
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Henk Birkholz
* Ivana Atanasova
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kaufmann
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum

## Agenda
* Upcoming Events
  * Docfest reminder - adding in analysis & producers to the invite.  Gary to send out agenda.
  * SPDX Miniconf at Open Compliance Summit
  * FOSDEM update

* Infrastructure
  * Python Tools updating
  * spdx-3-model git repo update

* SPDX 3.0
  * Close on Actor / Identity Model
  * Glossary
  * Revisit Friday call items not agreed to (due to missing vocabulary)
  * Review of (tentative) decisions from last Friday's call
    * Core profile will have a union of all properties used in profiles for the 3.0 release as opposed to a layered approach - profiles can add further constraints on properties and we can have different namespaces for different profiles.  Profiles can also create new classes not in core.  We will revisit this decision prior to 3.0 release to make sure we didn't create too much additional complexity.
    * ExternalIdentifier and ExternalReference will be concrete classes which can also be subclassed
    * Core profile will have the union of all enum values from profiles - we'll check later if this creates a mess and revisit once all enum values are collected
    * If trying to use a relationship type (or any enum), use other as the relationship type, and use extension to provide detail of relationship type. From a spec perspective it's just other. From a tool implementer perspective, if you want to be forward compatible, you can ignore relationship types don't understand.

## Minutes

* Docfest starts tomorrow at 7AM Pacific time
* SPDX Miniconf at Open Compliance Summit
  * next Thu 2022-12-08, Yokohama, in-person
  * info on defects profile?   Jeff/Thomas to send to Kate

* Python Tools update -- Max
  * soon to be released new version, will also cover SPDX 2.3
  * import / export
  * Looking for feedback on Release Candidate.
  * Max to connect with Dick -  Dick volunteering to help test.

* spdx-3-model git repo update -- Alexios
  * Separate directory for each profile
  * Core & Software match the latest diagram
  * In each directory there are:  Classes w/ Property and Cardinality
  * Properities say whether object property(points something) or data property (contains data itself).
  * Request to check against diagrams
  * Enumerations (aka Vocabularies) - like all the hash algorithms.    Needs 1 line descriptions still.
    * Relationship descriptions will need to be clarified.
  * Sean:  For the shapes of the classes,  recommend usage of prefix from namespace to be added.
     * Alexios:  This needs to be discussed in the context of the other name profiles
     * Sean: Recommend looking at this now, to avoid pain later

* Pending:  Need to decide if using singular/plural - externalidentifiers, comments, ...
   * Sean: recommend using single - rather than plural.   Alexios to raise issues, and get this documented.
   * Max: Once we have the .md files, which is the master?  diagram or .md.   Gary:  will switch to using .md, and generate diagrams going forward.   When is switch over.    In transition period - hoping to stabilize.
   * Kate: What about classes not in Core only profile?  Alexios:  New type will be profile,  but if new property for a class, it gets added to where the class is defined.   This needs follow up.    Profile modifying.
   * Sean - Software & Core are namespaces?   rather than profile.
   * Gary - should be easy to move file definition.   Add into profile, and easy to move over to core if makes sense.   Common properties should probably be moved to core.
   * David - There are two alternatives for defining the model files: 1) define a "Properties" folder  2) define all properties within the Classes folder
        * For example, Classes/Element.md has "creationInfo" property of type CreationInformation.  There is no reason to also define a Properties/creationInfo.md file, and doing so leads to the possibility of property name collisions that need to be resolved with namespaces.
        * Proposal: put all property definitions in Classes, delete Properties folder.
    * Sean - Properties are not always limited to a single class though.   File per Class is safer approach to move around.
    * David - Types are the common definitions that can be used in many classes.  Properties are just names
    * Max - it should be clear which profiles depend on class properties.
       * Kate - Example is SBOM profile - how encoded,  and how do we write it in text so we can find it, if things move.
       * Sean - Cardinalities being different should be applied as a shape (narrowing).    Shapes can be layer on top of namespace.
       * Max - Concern is when multiple profiles needed the property, how find this information.
       * Sean - Agree - moving to core is easier,  we need to document to not loose this information.
       * Gary - How should we reflect restrictions of classes?   Create a file in classes folder, and include property that you want to make more restrictive (duplicate the properties).   Allow properties with same namespaces.
       * Sean - Piece missing is Folder called profile, and each has an .md.  Two sections - what's in scope (classes) and then shape (where make it explicit).   That way we don't duplicate in the model itself.   Shape use to validate against the profile.
       * Gary - want to make this as easy as possible for profile creators.   Separate model from namespace.   If property you care about,  just copy, then do another a pass to separate out SHACL/RDF Shape.
       * Sean - wasn't trying to imply formality - license think about just new classes,  and for the profile its CORE, etc.   Class with 3 properties, cardinality defined there.    Defining which properties on the class, and use which way.
       * Max - still don't see how to represent - better hash could be added in future.
       * Henk - biasing on not creating deprecated hashes (only consume them) - would like to see this be able to be represented.    How to package them is concern.
       * Alexios - Description of every property goes to the property file.    Then class refers to property.
       * Gary - let's just get started.   Give format a try.  If specific and well defined issue - let's bring it back to this forum.   Look to solve with current description.   Looking to see new profile showing up next week.
       * Kate - looking for existing descriptions to be copied from existing spec, then review each.

* Close on Actor / Identity Mode
  * Gary reviewed approaches to date:  interface vs. optional property to actor for identity.   Optional property approach - has to two hops, but simplifies.   Helps reduce precedence issue.   Thinking is also there is different semantics.
  * Max concern it might reintroduce cyclic dependency with element.
  * Gary concern that Sean's proposal may need to be globally unique.   Some information is better than none.
  * Sean element has to have global id,  but use semantically relevant properties.   Element id has to be globally unique, but name of organization doesn't need to be.
  * Max share screen shot,  - created & originated by are embedded.   Sean - Greater query cost, better have as object property or relationship between them.   In one query step, get all the properties related to "microsoft", if it is not an element, it is significantly more complex.   Max:  can't you traverse the edge between actor and identity.
  * Nisha when want to describe what initiated something - that's an actor.  But if want to describe more details about the github account belongs to that's an identity?
  * Sean - showed diagram on screen and discussed with Gary.
  * Henk - have you considered PROV-O https://www.w3.org/TR/prov-o/?
    * Sean:  It has the same concept of agent.   It is focused on providence relationsips, so having the agent be abstracted completely has value.  Was trying to keep this a bit similar.
  * Nisha - in build profile, we have service provider.   Trying to figure out if this a tool, agent or actor - for github action.   Sean:  Consider github action as a tool.  It's an automated process so it's a tool.   This element came from github action X.   Tool is provided by github.   But it is execute by a person, to create the content.   Nisha - seems like its a collection of tools that provide a service.   If you reduce it to an individual components - can be explicit, but the concept of triggering steps - definition of what the steps are is provided by the actions, hosted by github.
  * David - Services have identies.  Strings would stand by themselves.   Not a reference to a sequence of bytes you can hash, its just a pure string.
  * Jeff - Would like to simplify the diagram - unclear on what an identity is.  Can person organization and tools be an agent, identity could be represented separately.  Could we remove the identity box to simplify.
    * Sean - Agent could be a proxy - not a concrete identiy
    * Jeff - Couldn't you go with just Agent and fill in what you know
    * Jeff - Is this needed for 3.0?
    * Sean - We do need to have the concept of Agent / Actor to prevent future breaking changes
    * Jeff - Consider using Provo
    * Jeff - Supports David's concept of passive and active "identities".
    * Sean - Agent - something that is taking action.  An identity may or may not be taking action, an identity may have an action being taken on it
    * Sean - We should have definitions on things like Identity, Agent, Artifact - may help with the discussion
    * Jeff - Question on Actor / Agent
      * Sean - Agent and Actor have the same definition within scope of the SPDX discussions
  * Max - Sean's proposal has a cyclic dependencies.  Proposal - have a class above Element that has both identity and element as subclasses
    * Sean -
  * Gary - consider using properites rather than subclasses
  * Discussion on cyclic graph caused by the identity relationships
  * Can be solved in serialization where we use the identifier rather than inlining the object
