# SPDX Tech Team meeting - 12 July, 2022

## Attendees

* Kate Stewart
* Bob Martin
* Sean Barnum
* Dick Brooks (REA)
* David Edelsohn
* Aditi Sharma
* David Kemp
* Karsten Klein
* Maximilian Huber
* John Horan
* Sebastian Crane
* Shyam Iyer
* Patricia Tarro
* Jeff Schutt
* Gary O'Neal (phone)
* Ivana Atanasova
* Henk Birkholz

* TBD if William will be able to join

## Agenda
* Sharing Interesting Stuff:  Tools & News
* Online tools questions
* Ready to tag Specicifcation 2.3 release candidate?
* SPDX 2.3 Schema & Tooling issues
* 3.0 - critical mass to work on core model issues?
* 3.0 - profile updates

## Notes
### Sharing Interesting Stuff
* CISA is having SBOM "listening sessions"  - details at: https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/06/01/2022-11733/public-listening-sessions-on-advancing-sbom-technology-processes-and-practices
  * Sessions on Clouds, Sharing&Exchanging, Onramps, Tools.
* https://devblogs.microsoft.com/engineering-at-microsoft/microsoft-open-sources-salus-software-bill-of-materials-sbom-generation-tool/
* OpenUK Survey - contains references to SPDX and explicits
* https://opencode.de/- leveraging SPDX as a gate,  all projects publishing to repository, must provide SPDX files to document ingredients.
* Upcoming:   SCITT IETF meeting on 7/28 in Philly: https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/114/agenda/

### Online Tools
* Aditi Sharma (Dell),  Tricia Tarro (Dell)- Dependency management,   Shyam Iyer(Dell)
* Having issues with online tools & validation
* Is validation tool sending to 3rd party or retained for a period of time?  Gary:  It's not sending to any 3rd party,  but it is being retained on server.    We have no retention policy, so it may linker.   We have privacy policies documented.    Note:  You can download a local command line tool and run locally.
* Patricia:  Are the terms & conditions for site available? Gary: There should be a link to the terms, it may be in github issue.  We'll re-establish if necessary.
* Patricia: Some community tools failing against SPDX license list?  Will this be an issue here?   Mostly failing for reasons of NOASSERTION Gary: May be related to LicenseRef-,  or NOASSERTION  - should validate.   Note there are 2 different Java tools - legacy and tools.java.   Use tools.java (out for 1+ year and stable).   There's a jar file for minimal, and one built with all dependencies included.
* Gary online request, and welcome additional code to protect uploaded SBOMs.
* Between SPDX version - attributes moved around.    Validator specific to version?
  * Gary:  Most of the time the versions are respected (forward compatible)  But if new term introduced introduced in a specific version.
  * Patricia:  Not finding terms and conditions on website, but it is on github.
* Tools currently perform syntax checking.  Seeking input on how to add semantic checking.

### 2.3 Release & Tools
* For upcoming docfest - looking for more JSON examples this time around.
  * John Horan requests for upcoming DocFest, longer lead time would be very helpful.  ;-)
* Defining relationship type pairs - forward and inverse - would be helpful. AI: Maximilian to create issue
* Looking for review of https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/743
* Any object with tagging 2.3 as release candidate?  No objections raised.   Explicit +1 on tagging from David Edelsohn, Dick Brooks,  Ivana Atanasova, Bob Martin, Maximillian Huber, David Kemp

### 3.0 Core Model & Profiles
* Continue Online discussion on Document Artifact.
  *  Gary - importance of roundtripping (between JSON, TAG, etc.) want to make sure we make explicit decision.  Want to maintain we have an external document serialization ref (possibly covered in external map).
  * David - SPDX 3.0 model ping file - had name on box called "Document" to discuss name, which was reference to larger issue.   Model does not show collection as an element.   Should it be part of logical model and document in diagram or not.
  * Sean - a grouping is a set of something holding other elements.   Talk about itself at some form.  Independent of serialization.  There is a whole dimension of use of this as serialized contact.   Concern that document is tied to serialization, rather than the abstract model.   Should be a pure conceptual thing.   Element that is a characterizaiton of file, person, set of things.   Describing set of things as logical things.     On 2nd dimension,  it is a transfer mechanism,  need to do consistently and losslessly.    Need to avoid it being tied to any serialization.
Document is a bag,  BOM is a set of things only once.   Serialization is the transfer unit stuff - and how they relate to each other.   Syntax is about the serialization of the data.   Spec talking about the serialization keeps the model clean about what is being represented.   Introduces biases into model.
  * Document being misinterpretted, but keeps getting misinterpretted as a serialization.   Concern about the new ones coming in, vs. moving existing people to use new term.    Lot of document/bundles would now be using the SBOM term.   Most would be at BOM/SBOM level.   Truly talking about Bag - like license list.   Concern risk.   Syntactic change vs. Semantic misunderstanding that keeps on coming up.
  * David:  BOM has a name that implies it's talking about a collection of materials.  BOM would inherit from abstract collection, and Bundle.    Collection and Non Contextual Collection.   Would like to see BOM & Bundle be peers.    BOM is focused on a particular purpose - Both should inherited from collection.    David doesn't object to the name bundle.   Concern about talking a physical document is greater than using bundle for refering to collection.    Dick: Thinks we should retain the Document element.   Statement about some set of facts.   Bob:  Those are physical serialized version - made the case of the problem.
  * Karsten: i object to the name bundle; this already has technical semantics
  * Jeff: I would also lean towards a name that doesn't infer the physical serialization (as document implies). Bag seems like a reasonable compromise.   Trying to understand how the document part of this relate to the collection and BOM.    Can collection just be used?   Was a similar discussion on defects call, how defect relate to elements.
  * Sean: It is there for some of the use cases we do have to reflect.
  * Karsten:  Why do we exchange SPDX documents, because we want to provide an attestations.   Propose document level be named "assertions".  Semantic concept that has nothing to do with serializaiton.   Bob:  Would a synonmym be a "claim" or "statement"  Karsten: Yes.
  * Dick: Talking about SBOMs, want to make sure not talking about an abstract element.

  * Sean: I disagree that a BOM implies a serialized object
  * Aditi: It is a Bill of materials and hence relating to a document?
  * David: We do need an Element type that conveys both "file" and "file that contains SPDX Element collection".
  * Sean: the serialization of a BOM or any "file" of element content could be characterized using a File element and tie the Artifact properties to that serialization
  * David: Type File with softwarePurpose="ELEMENT_COLLECTION" would work, but that's such a specialized type of File that deserves its own type.
  * Aditi: What ever initial elements would change from DocumentName to BundleName
  * Bob: No, it's not about the things it inherits from.   Serialization would control the name of the field in JSON.
  * Sean:  It's the abstraction
  * Gary: It is a substantial change and very pervasive.   People using the current name will be confused.   Would like to bring some data to the table.   Is the current term document going to be really confusing to people?   Possibly we should run a survey though a collection of data.    Possibly do this on SPDX tech maililng list - "are people confused to what Document means" - ask them to define what a document is.
  * David: We want to avoid multiple inheritance, so the "serialized BOM" type could inherit from Artifact and add element properties, or inherit from Collection and add artifact properties.
  * Kate: Like idea of doing a survey,  with a pre-defined defined definition.   Like that it will socialize any change as well, if we go that way.
  * David: From SPDX/CDX perspective, audience assumes of course Document means "file".  But SPDX v3 is a paradigm shift.  Need an ontology/knowledge-graph perspective to appreciate that logical instances can be processed without being serialized.
  * Gary: Careful wording is approporiate.  Willing to work on it.
  * Jeff: Like having serializaitons of what we're talking about helps,  does serialization committee have an example that we can include in the survey.
     * Sebastian and Alexios had example TOML and Turtle serializations, and I added a JSON equivalent at https://gist.github.com/seabass-labrax/ddc623c314c9dc6a14413e1e78f08290
     * Bottom line, there is no BOM or Document in those examples, but they can be serialized in v3
     * Need an example with an SBOM element.
     * AI: David to ask Serialization committee to help us here.  https://gist.github.com/seabass-labrax/ddc623c314c9dc6a14413e1e78f08290 is an example set of three elements (two packages and one relationship) serialized as TOML and RDF/Turtle.  There are also JSON serializations of an unoptimized set and an optimized transfer unit of the same three elements. None of the serializations has an element of type Bundle or Document.  Any element that is metadata about a serialized BOM needs both collection properties and artifact properties. That kind of element is required by ExternalReference, because serialized BOMs reference other serialized BOMs / licenses / identities. ExternalReference is meaningless at the logical level because elements reference other elements directly.
  * Dick:  Like to see some pro's and con's included in any survey
  * AI:  Kate to start a google document with the questions for the survey to get at whether there is common understanding of the term.   Ivana, Sean, Bob, Gary, David to participate in crafting the survey.   Survey to go out to the SPDX-tech mailing list to get pulse of community.   Do another copy to Social for wider understanding, and possibly to OMG community to test that understanding.
