SPDX Tech Team meeting - 1 March 2022

## Attendees
* Bob Martin
* Rose Judge
* John Horan
* Jeff Schutt
* Maximillian Huber
* Kate Stewart
* Gary ONeall
* Dick Brooks
* Jim Hutchison
* Jeff Schutt
* Sebastian Crane
* Nisha Kumar
* David Edelsohn
* Henk Birkholz
* David Kemp
* Jacob Wilson

## Agenda
* Clean up SPDX 2.2.2 merges
* SPDX 3.0

## Notes
### SPDX 2.2.2
https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/milestone/6
* Review open PRs for 2.2.2:
    * Reduce redundancy in ABNF description (Pull #474): Gary no opinion, no one else has comments/concerns
    but Alexios is not on the call. Kate will followup in GitHub for his review
    * Add CrossRef class to OWL model document (pull #491): Gary says push to 2.3
    * Handful of PRs addressing typos: Agreement to merge
    * Handful of PRs to fix broke links: Kate will review and merge; Sebastian will also take a look
    * schema: fix typos and clarify documentDescribes array (pull #586): Gary will review and merge
    * Question about build failures for simple typo PRs: Kate is looking in to it, suspects updated dependency issue
    * Request for second set of eyes on the 2.2.2 - Sebastian volunteered.

### SPDX 3.0
* Invitation sent for SPDX 3.0 Workshop - March 11, 2022.
  * prioritization of remaining Punchdown list,  prework

* spdx-3-model/issues/2
   * Agreement to add comments back to external reference.
   * Nisha agreed to take the lead on defining the set for 3.0

*  spdx-3-model/issue/4
   * is review & other sufficient for 3.0?
   * possibly annotations when converting between formats.   Gary is using Annotation type Other for automatic translation for CDX-conversion
   * Possibly licenses is a certain type of annotation.
   * Some concern about "other",  but concensus is to leave other for now.
   * David K:  Could license be implemented as another type of annotation?    Discussion landed on not needing to pursue.
   * Jeff suggests that TRANSLATION could be an other type to capture the auto conversion.

* Relationship - linking discussions are mostly satisfied by core, but some build ideas may go into build profile (aka provenance & pedigree one).

* Integrity (spdx-3-model/issue/7)
  * Heading back to meta question of do you have to have a document.
  * Challenge is signing an element.  Logical model vs. physical manifestation.
  * Verifying integrity of "bits",  "bits" is a physical thing.   William points could be stream of bytes that is hashed & signed.   ie. dynamically generated by API,  shared without persisting.
  * Sebastian reminds of Jan 11 meeting (https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/main/tech/2022-01-11.md),  parallel subgroup meeting to discussion.    Sebastian will send out a poll to tech list, for folks to sign up for a meeting and express preference.
  * Gary on dealing with topic for 7 years,  so have a specific proposal that is implementable before we decide to do it.    Nisha agrees with subgroup for serialization discussion.   Curious why it is separate?   William says because support different formats - ie. JSON vs. YAML have the same signature?   Can change signatures over logical info.   Signing only at document level - massive document.   Goal is to be able to abstract out parts and maintain integrity.   David points out that element model lets this possible.
  * Conclusion:  Signatures fall under integrity, but not considered blocking.

Hash Algorthims
* List of the ones we want to add compared to
* Henk volunteers to take a look at what is in IANA, CycloneDX, and what we have today.
  * The CycloneDX enumeration of hash algorithms is: "MD5", "SHA-1", "SHA-256", "SHA-384", "SHA-512",  "SHA3-256", "SHA3-384", "SHA3-512", "BLAKE2b-256", "BLAKE2b-384", "BLAKE2b-512", "BLAKE3" - Gary noted we've already got this.

Elements
* CC0 needs to be discussed with legal team present.

Artifact (spdx-3-model/issues/10)
* Capturing created property for when artifact itself is created.
* General agreement on call that it would be a good optional field.
* Nisha raised that this would be useful for containers.
* Temporally ordering versioning scheme if not following semver scheme.    This would be a good backup.
* Jeff:  this feels like a build profile item.    Kate, Bob, Nisha are also interested in working infrastructure build profile.
* Henk points about possibly of duration of time.   Kate flagged that this
* Nisha is there a way to indicate don't trust your time clock.  Henk: no trusted time stamp.
* Sebastian flags that Intriguing further reading for those interested in not trusting your clock ;) https://hackaday.com/2022/02/14/a-solari-mechanical-digital-clock-hack-with-a-little-extra/
* Agreement:  represent information that is known,  reading from existing location and standardizing representation in document with same time format as 2.2
* Sebastian brings up this might be a case for NOASSERTION,  may not have data.
* David Hopefully timestamp would be the RFC3339 subset of ISO 8601, for reasons given in the RFC. (see Kate: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3339)

Snippets
- maybe abstract to type
- wait for sean as he may have ideas from unified cyber ontology.

File:
    - purpose has been move to Package level.
    - media types extensible by IANA already.
    - Jeff: gitbom - artifact URI as well?
    - William: Suggest gitoid as new type in package URL, so we'd inherit it for free

Package
  - download location and homepage - William ok with leaving as is (rather than making as external reference type).
  - is there use in describing it further - source and binary?   William thinks they should be two separate artifacts.   If a package has be published by multiple download locations... sure thing should be different.
  - package-file-name - aligns with minimum NTIA guidelines,  more discussion needed.
