# SPDX Tech Team meeting - 11 October, 2022

## Attendees
* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* Bryan Cowan
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Michael Herzog
* Nisha Kumar
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew
* William Cox
* Henk Birkholz

## Agenda
* SPDX 3.0
  * How communicate confidence to consumer - "analytical" vs "authoratative"
  * SoftwareDependencyRelationship
  * Hash algorithms - mandatory?
  * Collection name
  * SnippetLocation
  * Punch list items if time

## Notes

* Confidence for Consumer (Analytical)
   * Some concensus emerging on being explicit on how it is derived.
   * Point to facts on how to derive confidence, vs. producer being explicit.
   * Value in producer of content, as well as from consumer side.
   * Producer Authoratative vs. Producer Analaytical vs. 3rd party analytical
   * Jeff Schutt: example embedded components, some scanning may be required. which packages in the final product's SPDX document were derived from authoratative knowledge, and which parts  were created from scans (best guess)?.   Articulate different aspects related to each other.
   * Sean: Want to see producer assert a confidence, scoping out how calculated could be problematic.
   * Jeff: confidence should be tied to components, rather than SBOM integrated.
   * Sebastian: Some originators may be more accurate than others, but for the purposes of this discussion we assume that all originators of data are legitimate.
   * Jeff agrees that signing or other verification of identities isn't sufficent for the use case, so isn't relevant to the discussion.
   * Gary:  Two properties, one property for source of confidence, and an other for actual confidence stated by creator.
  * William:  Additional property for between creator creator of  element and element of itself.   "Created-by"?   Do I own the thing that it is about?   Auditor scenario?   3rd party?   May not be same enum value.   How the information was derived, rather than who?  Different perspectives?
  * Gary: How much should this be as part of the "created-by"?  Relationship of tool may not be able to comment on analysis/manual.    Consider extending created - and why have confidence.
  * Sebastian: Avoid having a scale of confidence - can we have a vote if there are differing opinions?  Sean: was thinking about a scale.
  * Jeff: Like to see us writing down options, and worry about math/etc. in future.
  * Sean:  Agree with looking at scale in future version, not essential right now.
  * William example:  SW360 tool could invoke a scanner, or take manual curration.  Illustrates need to know the relationship of the element, compared to what the element describes.
  * Jeff:   software producer or consumer.   Decision tree emerging.

AI: Jeff to skech out some options an bring back to group next week.

* Software Dependency Relationship
  * William - moving some of the relationships into properties.    ie.  pair things together.   dynamic build, and static run time.   Doesn't preclude doing it independently, aspects not set.   More detail has ability.
  * Max - would like to see how 2.3 to 3.0 relationship would work?
     * William: would do 1:1 mapping for now, unless additional information is present.
* Adolfo - Would this proposal completely deprecate the previous relationship types?
   * Recommendation is that it would.
   * Concern about providing additional information in 2.3, avoiding wasted effort.
   * Clear migration path?   People are not enriching the relationships with current specs.
   * Gary did the some prototyping,  should be possible to have migration.
   * Sebastian concern about too much, too fast.   Like to see more traditional relationship system be kept.    Dependency relationships not so clear cut (some programming not clear).
   * David have a crosswalk table, and if there is one that isn't supported, write it in spreadsheet.
   * Jeff new proposal improves big criticisim.   Describes, Amends, Contains.... is what is being done in wild.
   * William:  Naming of groups of relationships will be useful.
   * Joshua: Real problem is the documentation isn't good enough for relationships, and when they should be used.
   * Gary: If we document this for 3.0 now, it would help the 2.X implementers, and be useful there.   Who has concerns about going forward?
      * Kate as long as we create the cross table and prove out a migration path.
      * Dick: if not present would it be contains?   Kate: depends on serialization.   Tag:Value.
      * Maximillian - FYI: Linkage types in ORT: https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/blob/main/model/src/main/kotlin/PackageLinkage.kt
  * Sebastian:  concerns about serialization & tooling implications doing it so quickly right now.   Like to see it as 3.1.
     * Gary: Some concern it would be a breaking change, so needs to be in 3.0 rather 4.0.
     * Joshua: Migration documentation is fine... But I think the actual documentation for producers about when to use a specific relationship is what we need. I think that's just really hard for people to understand ATM
     *  Adolfo: Concern about articulating.
     * Nisha: From automation perspective, we're not there with compilers telling if staticly or dynamiclly linked.
     * Kate: Yocto, Zephyr are there.  Gary:  Maven has it.
  * Summary:  People generally positive, but we need the migration path articulated (and better documentation of relationships)  before final conclusion.

* Hash Algorithms
  * Sebastian: SHA1 be included for all files, be upleveled to be SHA256.   Possibly have it as factor for security.
  * Gary: Was thinking along the lines of profiles saying what mandatory.   SHA256 update is finally.
  * Max: Not easy for everyone to migrate.
  * Gary: Definitiely a breaking change.
  * Sean: Agrees with Profiles asserting what hashes may be required.
  * Max:  Multiple profiles may require multiple hashes.
  * Summary:  All the profile working groups, to leave current mandatory checksum in place or update.
  * Summary: Remove Mandatory Hash from core profile,  and make decision by profile by profile what is expected for integrity.   ** Decision Made** :-)

 * David K: Today's diagram isn't posted yet, but there is only one Relationship class, correct?  There would not be both a legacy Relationship class with the big RelationshipType enum, and a NewRelationship class that extends the legacy class but uses the smaller RelationshipType enum?
   * Gary: Yes, its a migration.   Constraints in subclass, should be able to express in SHAQL,  definitely can do with SPARQL.

* SnippetLocation
   * Deprecate WWW consortium incompatibiliby.    W3C.
   * Snippet location - we need to define exactly what it needs to be, simple properties for byte range and line range.
   * Should snippets be an abstract class,  one for binary and one for text.
   * Issue that refers to this:  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/523   byte and line are proposed as separate properties on snippet
   * Is this only licensing?  No,  security wants to track.

* Future meeting topics:
  * Single-element examples should be included in discussions.
  * Confidence indicators (Jeff)
  * Relationship Transitions Mapping
  * Map out alignment of 3.0 schedule. (2 weeks from now)
     * Include in Release processes (ie. pdf generation)
