# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2022-12-20

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Anurag Biswal
* Bob Martin
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks (REA)
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* Kate Stewart
* Matt Roberts
* Maximilian Huber
* Sean Barnum
* Sen Hastings
* Sebastian Crane
* Takashi Ninjouji (Toshiba)

## Regrets
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Profile Review:  Status & Blockerse


## Minutes
### Usage Profile
*  slides shared to spdx-tech mailing list
* Open Question about whether fields should be on file or package.
* Focus on concept to "deliverables".    How represent.   Currently only to package.   Apply to other parts of the SPDX model.
   * Treat each of deliverables as subpackages?
   * Deliverable-1 has lib-a & lib-b - ie. valid in context.
   * Discuss more in Japan time friendly monthly meeting on Jan 9th,  others encouraged to attend.  Agenda to be mailed out in advance.
   * AI Kate: Add monthly meeting to https://github.com/spdx/meetings
   * AI Ninjouji:  Add Openchain usage meeting time to https://github.com/spdx/meetings

### Build Profile
* Follow up with Brandon.
* Next steps:  have build model that needs to move to general model.
*
### Canonicalization
* Lack of written prose for core team model is the blocker here.   Example:  Not sure which of the relationships we're going to keep.
* Have idea of kind of values that are needed.
* Edge cases have the difficulties associated with them.
* Decisions so far are documented in: https://github.com/spdx/canonical-serialisation/   Open issues at: https://github.com/spdx/canonical-serialisation/issues/6
* Start up once prose is in place, to move towards how tooling can be implemented.
* Next step:  Focus meeting on canonicalization.    Signing and cryptography aspects is an area that may be another good discussion.    Suggest after identity discussion, this will be next topic.
* Henk interested in discussions on cryptography.

### Defects Team - Security Profile
* Looking to represent what build profile already has in github.
* Blockers is alignment and schedules.
* Next 3 hour workshop is tomorrow - model is focus.   Enumerations and Diagram are WIP.   Link is not shared yet with draft model.   So picking up the discussion tomorrow.   Mature draft.

### Licensing Profile
* Meets in legal team meeting
* Steve is working in transferring from SPDX, and move to current model.
* Blockers:  None.

### Serialization
* David working on a pull request, based on William's example from diagram, and breaks it into individual elements, and gets back to serializing elements values.
* see github.com/davaya/spdx-3-model/tree/serialization/serialization.   Max & David to meet offline to discuss the serialization, before PR is submitted.   Max is focused on JSON serialization, how represent typing.  Properties that are particular to some type.   Next steps:  Max & David find a time to meet, and announce to mailing list,  let others know its happening on spdx-tech list, others can join if available (Sebastian, Alexios, ..)
* Meeting in early January for side meeting, and let know when back for larger spdx-tech meeting.

### Implementers
* Tools implementers coming together to discuss issues.
* Next set of topics, from docfest punchlist, to structure meetings, and interactions.
* Look for more announcements about topics to be discussed, and reminder of meeting.
* SPDX Implementers.

###  AI Profile
* AI:  Gary to change name to be AI & Data - pull request submitted

### Functional and Safety
* Targeted for 3.1
* Would be related to hardware profile for high assurance

### Other profiles
* Starting new discussion on Hardware profile
* Chips alliance meeting - interest in starting a new profiles
* Would target 3.1 (or beyond)
* Jeff expressed interest in the hardward profile
* Kate will send out a message to group once it gets started
* CISA has an HBOM effort underway
* Strong interest in pariticipation in hardware profiles

### Tooling
* See if Implimenters willing to pick up tools status
* Adding in additional maintainers - NTIA conformance (student staying engaged, new maintainer, new release.)
* New release of online tools planned for over the holidays.
* Java tools making forward progress.
* Lot of contribution to Maven plugin.
* CDX2SPDX converter - 2.3 release, issues & PRs have been included.   Renewed interest in getting interoperability more.   Looking for people to check out repo and try out.    Contributions welcome.
* CDX is supposed to be updating their utilities - anyone have status?
* State of Open Con - OpenUK - Security track
* Python Libraries - 0.7.0 release --> waiting to get on PyPi.
  * Scancode takes latest dependency, mitigation in progress.
  * Previous backlog,  refactor to let 3.0 be implemented.  Allowing 2.X --> 3.0 implementations.
  * Moving core data model.
  * AI:  Details of Thursday Python library meeting needs to be add to PR into meeting

## Punchlist Review
  * Max has new issue to add in from Nov 14th.  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/47
  * Snippet - no blockers for 3.0
  * File - no blockers
  * Package - should we move some fields to elements (subject for future meeting, do as part of review)
  * Artifact - no blockers
  * Element - external identifiers need to be better defined in particular SPDX identifier & external identifier needs to be clarified,   extension elements still need a decision made for this release.   Verified-using from data model.
  * Enumerations - no blockers - documentation welcome.   We need a cross walk from 2.3 to 3.0;  fact that value disappeared has to be explained.   General activity on translation spreadsheet - mapping started in November, but needs to be picked up again.
  * Actor  - on going discussion
  * Relationships - no blockers - refinement of the detail relationships need to be done.
  * Checksum - no blockers,  need to clarify Checksum "OTHER" decision from Dec 6th meeting.  In other enumerations as well?
  * Overview - spreadsheet created.

### Next meeting
  * no call next week (Dec 27)
  * next call on 2023-01-03
