# SPDX Tech - June 14, 2022

## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* Brandon Lum
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Hewett
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* 2.3 Schema review & tagging - release candidate or just put out 2.3 release?
* 3.0 Core Model - opens
* [Build Profile WG] Discussion of "where are file paths expressed" within packages. A package includes or contains files, which has hashes but does not necessary encode any path information.
* [Build Profile WG] configuration info - an object on its own? what should they include - what other usecases?  vs map


## Notes
### 2.3
* Sebastian to work on clarification with Dick,  pull request 670.   Documentation clarification.
* Pull request is issued for Schemas.   Please look for reviews, and then tools should be able to start updating.
   * Alexios able to review Schema in next couple of days.
   * Thomas recommends Marcel & Sebastian do a review as well. (https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/issues/4696)
* Historical may be changes for specification as a result of tooling implementation.
* After merge,  plan is to do 2.3-rc1 candidate;   email to SPDX tech and SPDX list that's there, and start 2 week window on  final release.
* David:  Do we have test cases that exercise all the new things in spec.
   * Gary - updates to examples needed for https:,  spec version,  & beerware.
   * Test data for 100% coverage?   Relationship types are similar.
   * New date fields in package - Release, Built, ValidUntil need to be added to examples.
   * David working on negative examples, and will be contributed.
   * Thomas: https://github.com/fviernau he now working on adding SPDX 2.3 support

### 3.0
  * Input packages - how something built.   File path - how define.   Compare to build script and confirm same
  * Configuration inforamtion - environment variables and entry point.   New element?   Map of objects.

### File paths
* Traditionally, files with different paths are considered unique files, same content, different paths = different files
* Sean notes that in digital forensic space we have taken similar approach to what Gary described where separate the content of the file itself (the "chunk-o-bits‚Äù) and treat it as an object. and that that chunk of bits at two different paths is two different files. This approach is important for several use cases.
* Options from https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-tech/message/4579 shared
* Other ideas:
  * Package can have an installation relationship on where package is installed
  * Package can contain other packages like a subdirectory
  * Contains relationship with a base path (optional on relationships - i.e. snippet case wouldn't have)
  * Have package file name
* File element related to vulnerability disclosure, find vulnerability in the file regardless of the file system. If a file is copied, how do you make the association?
* Use case for installed packages, where the path is relative to installation directory.
* Concern about using PathMap in addition to CONTAINS relationship introduces two graph navigation methods to support, and possibility of inconsistencies.
* ContainsRelationship can be subclassed from Relationship, or properties can be applied to some Relationships as facets/extensions
* Alexios proposed introducing "Content" as separate subclass of Artifact that can have a relationship to File (and other Elements) such as Contains
* William will propose a model



### ConfigInfo
* Environmental property with a map data type of string /string
* Map definition - data structure of key-value pairs - each key is unique and must be of the same type; each value is of the same type
* Discussion on the concern of representing maps in tag/value
* Will separate out the tag/value support as a separate discussion
* Comfortable with map as being a separate data type
* Maps are a data type not a subclass of Element

## Next meeting
* Many people will be at the Linux conference in Austin
* William is available to continue the discussion on separating Content from File
* William will send out a proposed model and lead the discussion
* Gary will check with Kate on organizing an SPDX F2F at the Linux conference
