# SPDX Tech Team meeting - 19 July, 2022

## Attendees
* Kate Stewart
* David Edelsohn
* William Bartholomew
* Sean Barnum
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neill
* Joshua Watt
* Bob Martin
* Sebastian Crane
* Aditi Sharma
* Alexios Zavras
* Dick Brooks
* Maximilian Huber
* Karsten Klein
* Nisha
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Brandon lum
* Adolfo García Veytia

## Agenda
* 2.3
* Serialization
* 3.0 Core
  * Name of Document
  * External Identifiers.
  * Profile
  * Build Profile - Agent and Subject.

## Notes
* 2.3 - generation of document now working at: SPDX 2.3 preview: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/
  * PR to fix spec version: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/749
  * Agreement in meeting this now starts 2 week review window.  (Bob, Sebastian, Dick, Gary, David, Maximillian , Alexios)
  * Namespace discussion - clarification, not changing fields, adding this week.
  * Todo - FILLING in Annex updates (Here's something that should help with the differences: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/738, I manually diff'd the spec and came up with this list: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/691#issuecomment-1154198748)  & 2.3 references.   AI:  Kate,  Gary critical path.
 * AI:  Kate to add tag today, and mail the release candidate window out.

* Serialization
  * Logical model having nothing to do with serialization?  Is this true?  Is this independent of serialization.
  * Sean:  Want to make sure that the serialization doesn't impact logical model.
  * David:  Have instances in Model store / graph store,  should serialization have impact on what the model store contains?   Sean: impact is from model to serialization,  and serialization should be able to map back to model.
  * Sean: Should you be able to tell how the data is used to represent?
  * Sebastian:  There may many serializations; databases can represent SPDX data exactly, but the database representation itself is not part of the standard. Once it is exported from the database, it's valid SPDX data again and exactly equal to the (original) imported data.
  * Sean: Serialization should be independent.
  * David: Do you preserve integrity information in the logical model?    William:  Integrity is in flux, would be applied at point of transfer.
  * Gary:  Use case - receive info from another party that needs to be validated.   Do you want to enable an auditor to be able to validate as well?   ie. checksum needs to be retained.   Original serialization will need to be retained somehow.   Sebastian:  Use case for canonical serialization?   Gary: Yes, but worried its a challenging problem to solve, and want to have backup.  David: creator would have to create the canonicalization?  William: Yes, this is the intent of going to the canonical back/forth of serialization.   Gary:  Needs to be done at origin, using the canonical serialization format?   If verifiable at point of ingestion, then trusting the middle man, if no way to store the original serialization.   Sebastian:  Document tracks the original unit of transfer.   Permits correlation to the original.   Document doesn't describe the only serialization.
  * Sean: Document is a collection elements.
  * Gary: We need to enable the possibility of storing information.
  * Sean: Agree capture the information as a file elements.
  * Maximillian:  Feature to preserve - shouldn't be in scope of model.
  * David:  Independence of elements in logical store - cross checking understanding.   Serialized set of actor elements,  what does the model store look like after you've added 3 actor elements into it.    If you load an SBOM into the model store, what does the model store look like after.   Tieing to serialization, created indellible mark.
  * William:  Tying container to serialization, not tied that tightly.   Container (who created, and when) would be persisiting.    If the container isn't of interest, you can discard.    If not transfering to someone else.   Don't need to generate containers.   It is independent of serialization, but you can't transfer without serialization.
  * David: Is the container an element?   Sean:  agrees it is.    Could also have an additional file element to define how it arrived.   This actor was serialized in this file.   At a mininimum should be able to representa as independent thing (via a file element with the contents).    Indelibly marked will cause divergences.
  * Sebastian: A container of elements - elements can be transfered without a container element.   Would be fully compliant. William's opinion on this?
  * William: Not quite the case,  we want to be able to describe who the creator of the unit of transfer is.   If it's not an element, can't attach info to what is transferred.   Can't attach to "outer", as there is no "outer".   Doesn't have structure/identity.    The aggregate is an entity.   The action created a new thing - an aggregate/anthology.   Query result is a bundle - there is some meta data.
  * Sean: Minimum unit of transfer is a single element,  a group of elements "should" not "must", have a wrapper around.
  * William:  Challenge is once you're crossing a trust boundry with other peoples elements.
  * Karsten:   A--> B   B-->C  How preserve integrity along chain with these mechanisms?
  * David:  Agree can call container a file, and receive if want, and can preserve it or discard as necessary.   But if you don't have the file,  need to be able to elements were created by their individual canoncial signature.  Just because transfering elements, shouldn't require a creation of new container.
  * William:  Reason it's not file alone, is because of the canonicalization.   One container could be serialized out in different files,  so not one file.  Logical concept of assembly (and populate), still needs an element to describe this.
  * Kate agrees.
  * Sean: if there is context beyond one element,  would agree.   Doesn't need to be a wrapper to say Sean passed it along. each Element gives the requisite detail of who it is from, etc I would agree with the value William asserts in a "container” WHEN. there is more than one Element but I think it is a SHOULD.   Disagree that all must pass through the "container" as impractical.
  * William: Adds complexity to not having it.   It would be easier if there was always container for tooling.
  * Gary: Any element being communicated needs to have either canonicalization OR checksum needs to still work.  Any security profile will still need to work.    Sean:  Agrees.
  * Sebastian:  Is serialization just a means to end for transfer?   William:  Only partially, because there is a context.   There was some selection process that Sean went through to get these element, and Sean creating this is also information.  That container is important.   This is why data license on a container - it is context.   Always context outside of individual elements.
  * Sean:  Containers of containers is certainly possible.   Streaming example of 1000 different things over course of month.
  * Kate:  Is time a factor for the transfer of a time - first element has context of expectation, as opposed to a set that will end a point in time.
  * David:  Package element pointing to PURL,  validate container without having actual element.    Get the file and validate signature.   Don't agree with separate element to preserve context.   William:  It needs to be indepenent of serialization format.  Signing the canonical, not the file.
  * Gary: Is checksums of file still being supported?   William:  File will be there.   Sebastian: Canonicalization is not mutually exclusive to what was done in 2.X.   Still able to describe unit of transfer.   Gary's use case:  Migration of 2.X document --> 3.X environment in a way that can be verified.  Sean Agrees need it.   Sample:  receive document ref that has link to external.   Sebastian:  Avoid conflating element level.
  * Joshua: Will nested containers be a thing?   Sean:  if we're talking collection - yes, collection references another collection.  If recursion beyond layers - just need to avoid self referential loops (acyclic).
  * William:  Where we're landing.  If single element and no additional context to be transfered, it's ok to not have container.  If multiple elements, it's a strongly suggested SHOULD (vs. MUST) have a container.   Note: this will make tooling more complicated for deserialization.
  * Sean: Default is always a list?  William:  Serialization formats do not always support this.   Sean: For those serializations you'd need to have some thing as top level to serve as holder.   William:  Protobuf: root is a message.  Everything supports a root object.   Sean: JasonLD is a list of objects.
  * Sebastian: For functional programming langauges - have capabilities for navigating sequences.
  * David: Root is array or set of elements (actor 1, actor 2, actor 3, collection) Or root MUST or SHOULD be collection, containing actor1, actor2, actor3. I strongly prefer first option.  Always the same structure whether collection is present or absent.
  * William: We need to make a decision and move on.
  * Root of serialization is an array of elements (how know context of array of 1 vs. n )
  * Root of serialization is always an element (either single or collection)   ** Tooling advantage
* Alexios:  How know when "end"?   Is there more coming.   Half the file, not complete.
* David: An acyclic graph always has one or more roots.  The graph itself identifies those roots.  Labeling them explicitly is an optional convenience to avoid having to analyze the entire graph.
* Karsten: What about the top level license.
* William: If we also need "rootElements" for the array option we're just recreating what a collection is... a collection is an array of elements with an optional list of rootElements.  We had that originally and we greatly simplified by making Document inherit from Collection since it behaved like a Collection in every way.
* William - if multiple complex graphs sitting in document, finding where the starting point to unravel.   Office, SBOM, Work SBOM, Excel SBOM all in same document.   Others are independent roots, with independent trees.
If you have an array of 1000 elements, don't want to have complex analysis.
* Note: both can handle, just different costs and efficiencies.

* Root of serialization vs. Root of collection.
  * Want to support both,  and maximizes practicality.
  * The collection exists in the graph store, independent of serialization
* Max: if I want to write the SPDX file, as the items come up as a stream, I can not add a new root if it needs to be in the beginning  William: @Maximilian the list of roots is a property so it can be set at the end.
* David: an example of serializing a 2.3 SBOM as a list of elements (with collection roots optionally in the list) and as a collection element (serialization root) will help compare and contrast.
