# SPDX Tech Team meeting - 9 August 2022

## Attendees
* Adolfo Gsarcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* Brandon Lum
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Jeff Hewett
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Michael Herzog
* Nisha Kumar
* Patricia Tarro
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* 2.3 - any last blockers
* 3.0 - core model
* any other topics?

## Notes
* Question Patricia:  I have a question regarding the tools-java-1.0.4-jar-with-dependencies. I have a team complaining that the jar file has a google analytics phone home enabled. Can I get information as to what information is being collected?   Patricia trying to get more information,  Gary looking to understand more details - run Maven dependencies.
   * Gary:  looked into the dependencies, and the Google Phone library looks like it is just a text parser and does not involve any actual phone functionality - here's a link to the library: https://github.com/google/libphonenumber - I'll look into it a bit more, but I don't think there should be a concern with using this library.  BTW - it is an indirect dependency brought in with the JSON Schema validator library.
* 2.3
   * Review period ends tomorrow.
   * If no blockers,  Gary & Kate to meet and push out release on Thursday https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/774
* 3.0
   * Sebastian slides feedback on analogies:
       * Kate: Envelope --> PostCard.
       * Sean:Catalog --> Collection.   Collection could be envelope.
       * Virtual Postcard --> Email.    Not contained, serialized different ways.
       * Elements are open & Transparent.    Envelops - for containing, privacy & routing.
       * Subclass of collection define the actual purposes we want to represent in the future.   Catalog can become spearate from what it lists.  From/To - local/remote.
   * Nisha: When an element is immutable, and indexed from different collections.   Post card with different messages, are different elements.   Different date & time of creation.   Photocopy postcard, but not change the words within it.
   * Gary: Agree with Sean's comments on Catalog.   Postcard, Letter, Envelope.   In 2.X we always required a envelope for each letter.   Sean: Can put 3 postcards into an envelope (less postage).   William:  3 postcards may not have context vs. all the cities on my trip.  Strict constraints over collection.   More specific subclasses of collection.   Elements always referring to something, may be the content themselves - example annotation & relationships.    Annotation is postcard that talks about another postcard.   Relationship completeness.
    * David:  Amazon box - talk about the pieces missing.   Canonicalization - if created by different word not same.    Serialization:  printing out virtual post card in serif  and sans-serif.
    * William: We don't have collections that aren't elements, arrays and maps would be the closest we have to a non-element collection.
    * Nisha: Sean: are you OK with collection == a set of elements? (set theory style)  Sean:  I would not be comfortable using set because it implies set theory mathematical constraints that do not necessarily apply here
    * William: +1 Nisha, 0..* elements per the model.
    * Sebastian: And 0 elements listed by the collection could actually be useful! The collection 'all the things I downloaded yesterday' could indeed have nothing in it, and still be useful context.
    * Post cards have stamps.   QR code.

* Back to Model discussion:
    * William: The serialization spec describes how you go from the logical to the physical. Ideally it's a simple mapping, but it may be more complex.
       * Sebastian: Here's one way of putting it: Are serialisation formats able to be mechanically converted between each other? Or do you need to understand that it's SPDX data to convert them?
       * William: The supported method would be serialized format 1 -> logical model -> serialized format 2. That requires you to understand it's SPDX (though to a shallow degree), but it allows translation between all formats that exist today and in the future, and allows canonicalization.
       * Sebastian: If one serialisation format uses arrays where another one uses maps, then they can't be mechanically converted - they have to be understood specifically as SPDX data, and then you can work out how to convert it as per the standard.  Maybe it's impossible to have all formats be mechanically converted without understanding the model. I think some people are wanting to have a closer mechanical similarity, if not identical in structure, though.
       * Sean: Serialization binding rules would need to specify how to serialize from the model to the serialization as well as how to deserialize from the serialization to the model. The model is the Lingua Franca. It is the common point of transformation. Similar to how English is the standard language for international air travel. A Lufthansa crew may speak German among themselves, the pilots speak to Paris air control in English and the air traffic control personnel in Paris speak to each other in French.  Converting from YAML to JSON would involve deserializing from YAML then serializing to JSON. THus avoiding the n-to-n converters problem.
       * David: Difference in serialization, array is just one property in object.
       * Gary: I'll provide my inputs on serialization formats once we get to defining them - I agree with separating these concerns from the logical model.

* Nisha:  Build profile - instantiation of package run time?   Kate:  Package is enough for now.   Runtime instance to config files, instances, etc.   Which relationship.   Environment that contains Jenkins for example.  Kate:  Focus on definition want to describe.   Gary:  Deployment is separate from Distributable.   Deployment of as a possible relationship.   Distributed from one step to the next.
* Next meeting:  Pass through all types, and any open issues,  final punch list.   Will have 1-2 senstence descriptions of each of the types.
