SPDX Tech Team meeting 25th Jan 2022

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* SPDX in the Wild
* Making progress on discussion topics

## Notes
### SPDX in the Wild
  * Renode Zephyr dashboard   -  https://zephyr-dashboard.renode.io/
  * CI results link to SPDX SBOMs for sources and binaries
### Contains relationship
* Does changing the content require changing the relationship?
* Relationship of element contained by another element,  and there is a dependency.
* Also when a package contains something else.   If it is known, should it be considered as immutable.
* If different elements are in the package, then it's a different package.
* We don't force you to describe the contents up front.   What if want to add contents later?   Content doesn't change, its just what's known about it.
* William: I think the "known" is a key detail, because that changes over time without the package changing.
* Sebastian:  why not know what's in a package?
   * William:  scan info improves over time.   Contains relationship from tar.gz.
   * David: tar.gz - doesn't have any files, its incomplete.   tar.gz and crack it open and know what's in it.
   * Can mark it as incomplete,  and have no files listed.   Fidelity of information has just changed.
   * Why is adding a relationship different than adding an external reference?
* William:  if relationships are just element, lets give them the same behaviour as other elements.
* Gary: Are they changes to the artifact of the package, or the element that describes it?
* Nisha: With regards to completeness.   Is it required for the SBOM to list all the things it knows about, or is it enough to link to external references.    Gary:   We need to allow all use cases,  different level of completeness from different perspectives.   Profiles should be one way to solve this.   In the profile should the expectation of the level of completeness.   Gary:  we should separate between what is unknown and what they just didn't bother.
* William:  It's completeness as far as know.   Example of container image, not having an SBOM,  but my knowledge of this may improve over time, because I upgraded my tool.   I might have thought my first version was complete, but I found more.
* Bob:  Can include tools used, versions and options as part of SBOM.
* William:  Are we just versioning the set of contain relationships or are revision the set of relationships.  Graph is the same, but following things back in the graph to get the more informaiton.   Superset followed back to get annotations.   Less graph following.
* Sebastian: in case of tar.gz inside a package,  why is it a package rather than just a file.   May want to describe the contents of the package so have meta data

* Conclusions:
  * Artifact contains relationships do not change
  * The element describing the contains relationship may change due to a number of reasons (don't know, incomplete knowlege, not important to include)

* Dick:  Representative model is just cracking the tar.gz seems to what is happening in the wild.   For legacy code.    Nisha - go code and binaries are doing the same.
* Bob: Its a bill of materials of components being installed into ecosystem.   There are 3 kinds of bill of materials that are related.   SBOMs:  Source,  Built,  Installation (post build).
* Sebastian: showed diagram to refer externally.  3 sets of meta data consumers, producers, upstream.
* William: and relationships as properties forces one of those options because elements are immutable.  ie. don't want to bring in all the relationships of the element.   If relationships are properties of package, have to bring them along to retain the integrity of element.
* Gary: I think it will be extremely common to have revised elements.   Its going to cause this problem to retain the information.  ie. package name is wrong (from bakeoff is common case),  find a new CPE and want to add it.   Copying is fine.
* William:  the copying shouldn't be forced to include, if a separate SPDX document its being transferred.   Difference is producer having to copy, vs consumer having to copy, and choice.
* David:  Can put all elements in a single unit of transfer, or different units of transfer.
* Gary: Do we need to examine how elements are revised?   Amends and walk a tree back?   Contains property?   Revision
* Sebastian:  Amend the middle SBOM to express the archive relationship.
* William: Fundamentally this is a graph with nodes and links, we have said nodes are immutable, you should be able to collect up any subset of the graph, choosing which links and referenced nodes, and put that into a unit of transfer. If I don't want to transfer file level information (because it's not relevant to the use case) I shouldn't be forced to. This was, I believe, the intent behind element immutability and everything being elements.

Nisha: because there tools that generate the SBOM, it's easier to regenerate.  Gary: agrees, regenerate with duplicated information.   When split into lots of small SBOMs, then reproducing all it depends on.  William:  is it best practices to reuse the elements that didn't change?   Nisha: Think so.    William:  Immutabilty permits us to include in different documents, and maintain it's integrity.    Sebastian:  relationships,  cascade down.
Dick: We have an excellent use case in Log4j, which removed the JNDILookup.class from Log4j-core

Gary: As a best practices,  should create new relationships that replicate the old ones, so don't have to go through the amends relationship at SBOM level.

William: One idea we had at one stage was the "to" on a relationship could either be an array of elements or a collection element, these would be semantically identical. This would allow you to create a new relationship with an updated from but re-use the to.
Sebastian:  Optional for producer, but not for the consumer.   Agree, consume may need to know to expand.

Gary:  Where do people feel:  If revising a contains relationship - Revise the element (precision),   revise the relationship (efficient),  or allow for both?    Completeness changes.   New element URI has quality advantage. Note:  will have to change URI if ammending the element.    Focus on files on packages.
   * Both:  Nisha, Dick, Sebastian, Kate, WIlliam
   * David: TBD - revising the package element may show inconsistencies.  From element to something. Contains.

Sebastian:  Inherent completeness of BOM?   Nisha:  don't understand why the contains relationship exists.   Don't really understand all the scenarios.   William:  How would you describe the contents of a package without a contains relationship?   Nisha: it's based on serialization - ie. visualize it as an array.   David: package listing it's member elements is equivalent to contains relationship.   Ensuring completeness is harder to
do in the other direction (use cases where it doesn't work,  there is something wrong, loosing info).   Evolving a graph and doing both ways to see if equivalent.    Property should be able to do everything should be able to do.
William: That's true for other scenarios though, it's just as important to know the completeness of DEPENDS_ON as CONTAINS. So if we're solving that problem lets solve it for all relationship types, not make CONTAINS behave differently to all the other types.
Gary: Consideration is usage.
William:  Can you have a package without listing the files?   In SPDX 2.2 - yes.   Can you transport a package (SBOM element) without transporting it's files?
Kate:  Contains is more than just packages.
Rose:  Would an SBOM contains signature?   Not sure.

Gary:  SBOM has a package,  which contains a set of files.    You want to make a revision to the SBOM for the set of files that a package contains?
    (1)  Anytime there is a change in the contains relationship, one has to change the package element.
          Pro's:  Concise for producer (initial production) without having to amend it.  Improve the quality (harder to miss updating relationships). Graph navigation easier for un-amended.
          Con's: Less concise for amendments. Makes element reuse difficult / less likely. Graph navigation is harder on amends, unless all copied.
    (2) Anytime there is a change in the contains relationship, only the relationships are changed.
          Pro's:  ^(1) Cons
          Con's: ^(1) Pros
    (3) Anytime there is a change in the contains relationship, the element, the relationship or both can change.
          Pro's:
          Con's:
    (4) Abstain

Dick:  wouldn't all result in new SBOM document with new timestamp?   Yes.
William:  Does this (option 1) imply if you're copying the package to another location?  Do you need to cary the relationship with it?   Would this force option 1 to occur without bundling?
Nisha: Point of clarification: if the scenario is a package that contains files, and we've decided that a package is a collection, doesn't that implicitly mean the package has a CONTAINS relationship with the files?   William: this would require multiple inhertance, if contextual collection and artifact.   How do we represent files for a package is where this conversation comes from.    Point of contention is how is it represented in model, and how.   Is there an array of files or not.
William: The proposal on the table is that a Package is not a collection, this was to avoid the multiple inheritance of Package to Artifact and ContextualCollection. Semantically a collection is a grouping of element information, where as a package is a physical grouping of files.

Next step:  Move the pro's / con's into email list.   Solicit other from email.
