# SPDX Tech Team Meeting - 25 October, 2022

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* Bryan Cowan
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Ivana Atansova
* Jeff Hewett
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* John Horan
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Maximillian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen

## Agenda
* DocFest - Date moved to Nov 30
* SPDX 3.0 Model - punchdown on the punchlist on Friday.
* SPDX "story" on vulnerability disclosures / VEX
* Sub-teams check-in
  * Anything blocking progress?
* 3.0 punch list items
  * Snippets - location structure and cardinality
  * Snippets - separation of content as a separate entity
  * File download location
  * Example data on model diagram - Serialization

# Notes

* Profile Rollout
In parallel to the SPDX 3.0 core models there is work underway to refine the following profiles as part of 3.0
   * Licensing profile (standardization and other updates)
     * trying to find a common time to meet
     * Mostly translate 2.3 fields to the 3.0 model
     * Max: Clarify rules related to license expressions
     * Thomas: request to fix how copyrights and licenses are associated - preq. to generating notices
   * Defects profile (adding VEX information when definition is done)
     * Coordinating meetings
     * Engaged open OpenSSF work
     * Coordinate with core - on how to define the spec
     * Suggest a 1 1/2 hour with William, Max, Gary, Shane, - should we take one of the defects
     * Relates to serialization of vulnerability data and serialization of SBOM
     * Will target next core team meeting
     * Context email sent out end of next Sunday - Describe the scenerios that we're trying to express - Jeff and Thomas
   * Serialization / Canonicalization
     * Paused - due to things blocking progress
       * Clarity around relationships - partially resolved
       * Software dependency relationship proposal needs to be resolved before progress
       * Independence of elements from documents - more of a communication than a modeling issue
       * Is it possible with custom / unknown profiles / extensions
       * Package URL's are difficult to normalize - example identifying proprietary software, collision avoidance
   * Usage profile (conveying information about when can use, etc. - OpenChain Japan team focusing on this)
   * Build profile (information relevant to recording build information to reproduce track provenance)
   * AI model & application profile (metadata information on how model trained)
   * Dataset profile (information relevant to datasets (like those used for training AI models)
* As part of 3.1, more profiles:
  *  Functional safety profile (FuSa) - be able to link all the meta data and reference plans together so there is a coherent body of machine readable evidence for safety assessors.   Given the rate of fixes for security, we can't wait to do this all manually anymore.
    * Hardware profile - linking software to identifiable hardware systems.

* VEX
   * Needs to be consistent messaging to communicate our position.   VEX - who ever wants to help distill into a single page,  put on website & WIKIpedia.    Outreach team needs to focus on response.
   * DHS round table - NIST Guidance cited, does not support VEX, but vulnerability disclosure (VDR) documents.   M2218. (Dick's article advising  https://energycentral.com/c/pip/advice-software-vendors-prepare-omb-m-22-18-requirement software vendors to prepare for OMB M-22-18 )
   * CSAF VEX (profile 4 vs. profile 5) vs. CycloneDX are very different.
   * European - expecting VEX.
   * This is a publicity issues with vulnerability information.   Needs to provide this aspect.   Understand reason for this.
   * This is will be focus of the Defects call tomorrow.   VDR could be assigned over.  Link to CycloneDX VDR support: https://cyclonedx.org/capabilities/vdr/


* Profile
  * Looking for subteams to report out in the general meeting once per month.
  * Looking for input going forward about blocking status.
  * a PDF with the history of the model: https://github.com/maxhbr/spdx-3-model-history/blob/main/model.pdf ;)
  * FYI: SCITT USE CASES for the London SCITT meeting are available publicly: https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-birkholz-scitt-software-use-cases-00.txt

  * Licensing Profile - Alexios coordinating with Steve, need to get model solidified, and find time.
    * As common as possible is goal
    * licensing should clarify rules that apply to spdx lic expresisons, like commutativity.
    * Fix how copyright and licenses are associated with each other.  Who gave the license.  (needed for Notices)

  * Defects Profile - Thomas
    * Want to see examples in Jason for Model.   Jeff & Thomas need to "power workshop"   Maximillian, William, Sean are needed.    Call for core members to join a call?  or repurpose a general core tech call.
    * Serialization of SBOM data need to see how model serialized so we can express this.
    * Setting up the discussion - context email requested by Sunday?  ** Describe scenarios trying to express.  Thomas & Jeff Schutt - to produce.
    * Build off  serailization, and align up from there.    Serialization may have disconnect.
    * What do basic things look like,   serialization is a blocker.  How this functions in real world scenario.   How to express it is challenge?   Canonicalization needs to be expressed as examples.    In particular interaction with vulnerabilities.

* Serialization & Canonicalization:
    * Paused canonicalization - blockers are:  clarity around relationships.   Partially resolved with relationship discussion.   Software dependency needs to be stabilized.   Not concluded.
    * Independence of elements from documents - needs to be written down so not have to be revisited.
    * Extension points need to be clarified.   Some examples where canonicalization fails when don't understand what applies to data.  Semantic rules associated to data.   No consistent normalization for PURLS, and not versioned.  Loose ends where canonicalization will fail.   Identification of proprietary project needs to be clarified.  How ensure uniqueness?   Collision points.   Supplier, Product & Version - should enable unqique.

* Usage Profile
  * Blocker:  Example of how to fill out profile.   Documentation blocker.
* Build Profile
  * Having trouble determining if data to be encoded as properties or relationships.
  * Need clarity on software dependency relationships.
  * Serialization of data is needed as well.   Looking for an example of how to do this in JSON.   There are 2 examples to be pointed to (url?).
* AI Profile
   * Looking for documentation examples to move the fields into.
* Dataset Profile
   * Working through JSON examples with sample datasets.
* Implementers meeting
   * Share to docfest participants.
   * Consider moving to another time, so Maximillian can attend.
* Defects Profile:
    * Looking for JSON examples
* Build: Looking for how to express scenarios, automated build trigger in particular (someone doing on behalf of an identity).  JSON examples vs. text documentation and markdown.
* David:  JSON examples needed before documentation.  Canonicalization can be documenting SPDX format in prose.
* Maximiliian looking for  JSON examples.
* Sebastian notes that canoncialization template is there, and will be round trip

* Serialization comments - need to either update the examples on model diagram or remove them - as they're incorrect.

* 3.0 Punchlist items.
   * Snippets - deprecate WWW,  and use byte # & line # (from prior meeting)
      * Both are there today.  Continue to allow both.
      * If in conflict,  it's useful information to have inconsistency, but byte range should be prioritized as more authoritative.
      * Sebastian would appreciate mutually exclusive.   Gary if there is a conflict would be hard to implement.
      * Jeff - how do you locate the snippet.   Any clue you can get is better than none.   Don't make it mutually exclusive.
      * Thomas - never seen snippet reporting in byte range.
      * Gary - byte has higher fidelity, and easy to convert to line range.
      * Sebastian - +1 for both available, but if conflict is invalid.
      * Bob - ok to have both, but not forcing using one or an other.
      * Jeff - both are optional.
      * Thomas - need to provide some guidance if both can be present.

   ** DECISION **:  Both should be allowed, not mandatory in core profile.  If both present and in conflict, then defer to byte as authoratative.    (this may be overwritten in other profiles)

* Should we have the location be a snippet class?
   * Gary:  preference, just have two properties.   Each with a tuple of values.

   ** TENTATIVE DECISION **  Prefer this as two properties.

* Jeff:  How do we handle identifiers for snippets?
   * Gary: queue this up for next week.
