# SPDX Tech - May 31, 2022

## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew


# Agenda
* 2.3 blockers
* 3.0 forward progress

# Notes
## 2.3

### MKDocs
   * Looking for reply,   CI almost working again.
   * Thomas - make conditional on which branch is made.   Will try during call to add the "if"

### Update from Legal Team Discussion on Namespaces, License info in Snippets
   * Conclusion - not able to reach agreement with legal team.   Need a joint call.
   * Friday at 8am PT - Gary to send out an invite.   Cover both license name spaces, and snippets, challenge was understanding use-cases.   Syntax presented raised concerns about length.   Review use cases.

### Usage Profiles
   *  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/671 - propose moving Fields under Package as optional (for those that want to use them) and make suitable to incorporate in 3.0.    Valid-Until - being looked for in FDA guidance for SBOMs.
   *  Blocking for schema updates.
   * Discussed for inclusion - generally agreed as optional for now.    AI:  Kate to separate out,   send PRs today,  looking for Japanese folk to review.    Needs to be able to scale to Artifact level for 3.0.  Target merge by Friday.

### Community Specification License
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/679 - Thomas and Steve to discuss off-lie.   Looking for DCO check to be explicit.    How, what & why should be explained up front.   +1 from William.   This is more a community update needs to be updated in one PR.

## 3.0

William reviewed new diagram
Jeff:  Use case interested in - Artifact URI will be replaced by Identifier.    Pull in universal reference like a gitbom reference for Defects.
