# SPDX Tech Team meeting - 26 July, 2022

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* DIck Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximillian Huber
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* 2.3 - finishing touches (Gary & Kate)
* Build Profile - diagram (Sebastian)
* 3.0 Closure on element/array

## Notes

### Serialization Page
- the repository: https://github.com/spdx/canonical-serialisation
- the rendered web page: https://spdx.github.io/canonical-serialisation/

### 2.3
* Updated: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/
* Issue #760 - Single License vs. License Expression.
  * DECISION:  On the call, License Expression,  Ontology Diagram & Update text - Alexios to provide PRs.
  * Annex PR & License List.
  * 9 am Pacific tomorrow.

### 3.0 Build Profile
 * Sebastian worked through diagram,  Kate raised question that can GENERATED_FROM instead of BUILD_INPUT_OF, BUILD_OUTPUT_OF.
  * Build element is there to provide sufficient detail.
  * We need to consider this as a broad decision on GENERATED_FROM vs. the BUILD_INPUT_OF/ BUILD_OUTPUT_OF
  * What about configuration information?   PKG.JSON files for instance would likely be an "INPUT"
  * Noted we have some relationships already for configuration, makefiles, etc.  so we should do a
  * William: re: BUILT_BY, it would be good to see an example of a distributed build running across multiple machines.   What about BUILD_DEPENDENCY_OF?
    * Sebastian: Chained or nested builds could have BUILT_BY;   Chained or Nested builds?
       * Probably need boths ( in parallel, as well as dependencies between )
       * Consider the model for github actions.  Look at how represented in YAML.  William to provide link
   * David: Challenge is how much to represent on build information?  How much can we reuse an element?  Tension with many elements in Containers.
     * William: I lean towards smaller elements and relationships, it allows producers and consumers of data to choose the amount of data to share and to add data later.
     * Sean:  Keep context separate from element makes sense.

### 3.0 Serialization
* https://spdx.github.io/canonical-serialisation/

### 3.0 Core
* Nesting vs. not of element, and how it flows through to serialization.
* Naming of document will depend on this being resolved.
* See email thread: ..
* Nesting:  transparent to logical model likely.  Likely logically equivalent, and serialization should hash to same id. :  Nested, Peer, External.
* David: Agree on every element has it's own hash, get information at serialization layer.  Shape properties in logical model will capture of this.   Every element is independent of other element.
* Sean: Collection is a set of ids, semantically the same.   Elements are independent.   All the information that applies to all, can be optimized.    Root object should be required.
* William:  Root could be an element, supporting a nest.
* Gary: agree with keeping independent.   Reminder that relationships is an undirected graph, so serializations should keep this in mind, as there may be cycles which trigger infinite depth.
* William: Nesting is NOT for relationships, its only for references to elements.
* Sean:  Objects are inline.   Non element classes can be serialized. Only ever embed elements at 1 level of depth.
* William:  in RFC,  should rather must.
* Gary: : would be +1 for must.
* Sebastian: Want to advocate for no nesting in serialization at all.   Would be a smoother entry for new folk.
   * William:  would cause significant problems for root.   If force to be peers, could issue.  Not forcing, allowing. Sebastian notes that every option for an SPDX producer, consumers are required to implement both.
   * Sebastian: Support separation between logical and serializations.
   * David:  Data types vs. Elements - difference between serialization root.  All serializations have to have a root.  Always have a collection of elements, and serialize with root.  But the collection of elements does not ncessarily have to have a root element.
   * Gary: Using libraries to serialize/deserialize additional constraints.  Most JSON libraries can serialize if you have arrays by type.  (for simplified JSON format, not JSON-LD).   These are separate issues from the logical model.  As long as we have the flexibility to implement,  like JENNA with OWL & SHAQL constraints.
   * Sean: All of the libraries that parse content to the logical model, any special brevity is going to be custom code.  Out of the box tooling would be able to lossly tranform to/from model.   There is tradeoffs to be had here between the easiest, some level of investment required.
   * William how to make a descision?
     * Sean: Single root and only nesting one level deep
     * Kate: Permit one level of nesting.
     * Alexios: so are we saying collection is not an element?  William:  Collection is an element.
     * Sebastian: collections describe what they contain as a property, packages contain logical relationships.?
     * David:  SBOM is a collection, there is a list of elements part of that SBOM.   There is a diffent collection of elements that are serialized in a file - the element describe that elements in a file is an SPDX document.  THe elements include in there are the ones serialized in the file.   Roundtriping there is difference.

* Gary: Has concern about nesting level (based on library)
* William:  SPDX 2.X --> 3.0 does Document into a Bundle?   Sean: Yes.
* Karsten: What are we trying to express?  What are we exchanging?
   * William:  A collection of elements. If sending an SBOM - root is SBOM.  BOM for software.
   * Sean: Would like to see example of a what a document would like rather than a bundle?   Feeling missing something.
  * David K:  Bundle is a logical collection of elements.  SPDX Document is a logical collection, with serializaiton info to apply across serializations.   ie. Download location for serialized file.   ie. JSON, RDF, etc. contains the identical collection of logical elements.   Has the brevity information in it.   SBOM has fixed collection with 10 elements - can serialize as 10 documents, one docuement, 3 documents.
  * Gary:  Need the unit of serialization, be able to validate.  Critical to audit use cases every days.  Maybe reverse engineer from elements.   Need unit of serialization in the logical model.
* Sebastian: two sides - way to serialize (preference) vs. info about the transfer in SPDX itself. The purpose of choosing a serialisation format is to make it easy for as many different people as possible: subjective rather than objective qualities. Would suggest a tournement or vote of some kind on subjective aspects.
* Kate: upgrade paths would make a difference to how easy a serialisation format is to use.
