SPDX Tech Team meeting - 15th Feb 2022

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Henk Birkholz
* Jim Hutchison
* John Horan
* Gary O'Neall
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximillian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew
* David Edelsohn

## Regrets
* Sean Barnum

## Agenda
* GSoC (brief)
* SPDX 3.0 Model
* Defects
* SPDX 2.3
* Usage Profile


## Notes
General:
* Nisha: http://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/ should be looked at for diagrams.    William and David still prefer PlantUML (due to the fact that Mermaid is EXTREMELY opinionated and doesn't have many escape mechanisms when you don't agree with their opinions.)
* GSOC
  * Alexios - will ideally have many projects to give choice to potential mentees. Would like project ideas and volunteers for mentoring.
Ideas so far (https://wiki.spdx.org/view/GSOC/GSOC_ProjectIdeas#Ideas_for_2022_Projects)
  * Tool to see if SBOM complies with NTIA Minimum Elements for SBOMs
  * Updates to our regular libraries (SPDX Java/Go/Python tools/libraries)
  * Web-based system to manage private license collections; useful for organisations with unusual or non-open-source licenses. Until now there has been no standard way of managing custom license namespaces.
  * Rose Judge suggested an 'SBOM combiner' - a tool to combine lots of small SBOMs about components into one
  * Mentors would be able to give direction where there is a choice of technology stack
  * No fixed deadline; but need to refine them in early march.
  * see:  https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline
  * Dick Brooks volunteers to be a mentor for the first one! Kate also willing to help with it. Python is a likely technology to write this with, but will use existing SPDX libraries.


### Package Purpose discussion

https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/622/

Sebastian brought up concern about FILE being added as a PackagePurpose:
  * FILE will always have a purpose but it may not be known
  * PackagePurpose has cardinality of 1..1, meaning that adding granularity isn't possible

From discussion on the call, general agreement that it should be 0..*.

Gary - File would help with CycloneDX compatiliblity - CycloneDX doesn't have file 'elements', only 'components' with a classification of 'file'.   Example of using config file as distribution unit.

Nisha - Container image could be one use-case

Kate - has concerns with use of term FILE - as it will become confusing with our File Type.   Also has concerns if we should have DEVICE and FIRMWARE as concepts in the list.   Device is overlapping with Hardware Profile.  Firmware is an executable file (like the Go static linked example as well).

Gary's concern is that  we don't overly constrain, so the mapping with CycloneDX can be handled.
Kate took the action item to propose some other terms.


### Model discussion

Willilam:  feedback on comments about 1:1 relationship?   Nisha believes that she was that raised it, and agrees that 1:m is fine.
Default direction that the relationship expresses,  from is the many
Nisha: Package contains file1, file2, file3 and Package depends on package1, package2, package3 are 1..* no?
   * but package1 depends on package2 is 1..1
   * first one is top -> down and the other one is bottom -> up

William comments:
    * package1 CONTAINS [file1, file2, file3]
    * package1 DEPENDS_ON [package1, package2, package3]
    * package2 DEPENDS_ON [package4]

Bob:  what if only have the installation package?  Don't have access to the source.    Build an SBOM that meets the minimum elements.

Gary: Just a note - Package does have a property packageFile which is different from a File relationship to a package.  https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/package-information/#74-package-file-name-field

Sebastian: dpkg -c, makes reference to files inside .deb, file names are relative to root of filesystem, not of root of source package, so need to understand.

NOTE:  - https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/master/tech/Model.png is where the master model diagram is.

Decision: Relationships will have a 1 to many relationship between the From element and the To elements

In SPDX 2, one might not control the 'elements' from which the Relationships come from. Therefore each Relationship type had two direction variants, allowing the new SBOM to link into existing and immuntable SBOM documents. In SPDX 3.0 this will no longer be necessary because Relationships can be added (in a seperate document) by a third-party to an existing SBOM.

Gary:  Use cases - have one depends on, to many depends on.   Who depends on me,  would have different semantic.
Would like to go through the list to work through all the relationships that support 1:m,  Gary to find spreadsheet from 2.0 discussions to .   When is use case common enough for the reverse many to be a type level.

I believe the spreadsheet I was talking about is Spdx-usecase-satisfaction-20130402.xls on the wiki page https://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/Use_Cases/2.0 - but for some reason, I'm not able to download it

David: Description of Relationship Type needs an additional value: Element or Metadata? 90% of Relationships are metadata about artifacts (package contains files, object file depends on source file, etc.) But AMENDS is metadata about metadata - two Elements are metadata about a single artifact, but one Element amends the other.   Is there any other relationship type that is "metadata about metadata"?

### Defects

First meeting is tomorrow.    Organizational and 2.3 topic for discussion.

### 2.3

* Talked about purpose earlier
* Add SWID tag identifier as an external reference
* SPDX Lite doesn't have minimum fields for NTIA; Supplier is necessary but not in SPDX Lite. SPDX Asia Tea member will draft an improvement to the specification to add this.
* Some of the older pull requests need to be reviewed for inclusion 2.2 (see Gary's older)  AI:  Kate.
* Valid until and intended "usage" potential fields. New, opportunistic. Depends on whether it closes soon, so as not to delay 2.3.
* Dedicate meeting running through open ones, for including in 2.3.  Both open pull requests and open issues.
* Consideration of adding PURLs to top level for 2.3 - lot of fans.
* REUSE repository on github - like the ability to have snippets excluded from license scanning.    Kate feels this is more a tooling issue, rather spec.   New type of tags to comment out for purpose of license scanning. https://github.com/fsfe/reuse-tool/pull/464#issuecomment-1029884677

### Misc
* Gary looking for help with github actions
* Thomas needs SPDX Google Drive folder to move all the relvant defects material.   AI:  Use top level from DocFest, and set up a Defects working folder there.
