SPDX Tech Team meeting  - 8 March 2022


## Attendees
* David Edelsohn
* Sean Barnum
* Brandon Lum
* Bob Martin
* Nisha Kumar
* Dick Brooks
* Kate Stewart
* Chris Hibbard
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Jim Hutchison
* Maximilian Huber
* Rajesh Balakrishnan
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew
* Henk Birkholz
* Karsten Klein
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Rose Judge
* Bob Martin
* David Kemp


## Agenda
* 2.2.2
* 2.3 branch
* 3.0 documentation layout review
* 3.0 specificiation

## Notes
### 2.2.2
- Merged #592, #598, #619, #597
- Gary still needs to look at #586 as the file needs to be generated
- #474: Henk will look at it as the ABNF expert
- #501, #547 to be moved to 2.3
- AI:  Kate look at #600

- Sebastian: python version?
- William: recommend upgrading the python version unless there are some breaking changes.
- Sebastian: latest version of makedocs is 1.2.3 which was merged into the 2.2.2 branch.
- William: the other branches are not using it though - need to do that.
- Dick: python parsers have some restrictions on it.
- William: open an issue in the python-tools repo

### 2.3
- 2.3 branch created
- #609 to be submitted to the 2.3 branch (done)
- #622 needs some changes - Nisha will take care of it
- #628 has proposed language for #622

### 3.0
#### Documentation upgrade
- William looking at reviewing more modern documentation generation capabilities.
- shows unique properties for a class, as well as a view for inherited elelments.
- Kate: what about profile interaction
- William: not happy with the current setup
- Sean recommends using SHAQL for being explicit about the constraints.   Also has some autogeneration ideas to keep aligned referencing http://lambdamusic.github.io/Ontospy/ ?
- William: we want to make the user experience effective.  Starting from a point of consuming the spec, and not a subject matter expert.
- William has this in private repo for now, but if folks are interested in experimenting, please reach out.
- Patterns in the documentation are ecosystem specific,  flag to Steve Winslow to review and extend over future.
- Usecase and patterns - aka vignette - see Steve's example repos.
- Concepts are for philosophy behind concepts rather than specifics.
- Possible to associate profiles with specific use cases?   Yes.    NTIA minimum,  SPDX lite, ...
- Would it talk about relationship between source and binaries?   Probably makes sense to do so.
- Priorities for this interface:  Possible, good user experience, implement

https://www.ibm.com/support/z-content-solutions/container-extensions/

#### 3.0 Build Profile (side discussion)
- Instance of an entity is recommended for representing (Sebastian, William, David, Kate) are all interested.
- Move to async Mailing list discussion:   environment,  build file,   and invocation.  Open question what is relationship.

#### 3.0 Identity Punch Lists (#6)
- Sean went through through diagram,  associated with created-by property.
It's important to separate concept of identity from things that represent identity (identifiers).
   - David likes aspect of agents, and separting out the artifact agents from other types (identity, tool) that we have today.    This lets us scale forward.
   - We need to double check that artifact definition aligns with observable objects. **  need to come to concnens on definition of pieces.
- Leads into discussion are identities artifacts.
- Sebastian raised that Validation is not discussed,  Sean agrees.
   - Willliam: This is where you might be able to use verifiedUsing to provide additional information.
- Nisha: likes that you can be explicit about an artifact created by 3rd party.   Can it handle the distrobuilder use cases?   Sean - yes, you can create forked model.   Existing model lets us do most of this today, and this makes a portion a bit easier.    Example:  Some are mirrored,  some are pulled as binaries from 3rd parties.   This will compliment the external map information, hybrid/mixed.
   - William: Here is how I would describe the fork scenario in SPDX: ForkProject createdBy Nisha DESCENDANT_OF OriginalProject createdBy William
- William:  sees value in separating identity from identifier, each with own lifecycle.   Ambivalent on whether artifacts are identifiers or not.    Concern poin is there are 2 instances of multiple inheritance.   I think for SPDX we can clarify identifier and agent.   Agent is something that is taking the action.

* AI:  Definition of Artifact needs to be clarified.

* New Participant:   Brandon Lum from Google, security team,  looking forward to helping.


### CycloneDX
- Continuing conversations overdue for another sync
- Vulnerability references
