SPDX Tech - March 29, 2022

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* Catalin Sratu
* Chris Hibbard
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Hardik Patel
* Henk Birkholz
* Ishaan Phaye
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda

* Introduction
* 2.2.2 release review
* 2.3 - License fields
* Focus meeting?
* 3.0 - Open Topics

## Notes
* GSoC Candidate Introduction
   * Hardik Patel  -  looking to participate in GSoC,  updating latest spec.
   * Ishaan Phaye -  interest in Python commandline project.
   * Catalin - I am now writing the proposal for GSOC 2022, and I would like to study the new version 2.3
* AI: Kate to ask Alexios to host an introduction session.

### SPDX 2.2.2
* Two others from Sebastian need to be merge.   AI Kate
* Release 2.2.2 and then sync 2.3 up to include it.

##  SPDX 3.0
* Nisha to take at the external types
* We will stick with review & annother as annotation types
* Relationships
* Identity - next week.
   * Seperating Identifiers from Identities makes sense
   * Like idea of agent,  identity can perform an action or be passive.
   * Tool belongs in same class as person & organization.   Something that has agency.  Making Decisiosns independently - taking responsibility for doing something.   Tools can't take responsiblity/agency.
   * Process that runs the tool AI is actor, not the tool itself.
   * Splitting identity from Actor(agent), consider 3rd party SBOMs.  See what the agents are, but not aware of the identities behind them.  Example:  generating an SBOM from NPM package,  know account name which is an agent (don't know if person or organization).    Real life example - wan't sure if repository account was a person or organization.
   * Sean:  design was put forward should cover this.   William looking at simplifying.
   * Sean:  Proposing we clarify the definitions over the next month.   Mixing multiple things in identy is an example.   Challenge is Document Element, compared to Bundle.   Unit of transfer.     Agree that the punchlists are agreeing on context.   William:  we can't define it, until we work out what we're trying to do with it.
   * Nisha: recommend sharing use cases with misgivings to move the conversation along.
* Dick has issues with the language I'm referring to in section 5: A Package refers to any unit of content that can be associated with a distribution of software. Typically, a Package is composed of one or more files. An SPDX document may, but is not required to, provide details about the individual files comprising a Package (see Clause 8).
     * Kate: “distribution” is probably the word is causing problem.   tar balls could be considered distributions.  Ubuntu distro is set up as a set of “packages”, so having a “package” of “packages” is also possible.
     * William channeling Gary.  Distribution --> distributable & can be versioned.
     * William:  part of the definition is not every file is a package but some files are, the difference would be if the file makes sense "by itself" then it is a package (it is individually distributable).
     * discussion of "index.html" - it's just a file, part of a package.    parse-item.jx - use package purpose?  Can be represented as a file with a version.
     * William:  if it makes sense independent of a package, then it can be wrapped in a package.
* Discussion on 2.3 vs 3.0 - Ontology vs. Schema.
* William. Software Purpose - started in 3.0 and migrated back into 2.3.   Have not changed semantics.
   * Propose problem use case, when concern about model.    3.0 in evolution.  Lot of little movements.   Disconnect back to 2.2 - recognize and explain it.  Not necessary revert.
Discussion of package, zip file, etc.   both are languages.  Level of expressiveness necessary.
* Dick Brooks - atomic vs grouping.    parser.js - is it a file or a package.
   * William - there is some art here,  as well as context (internal & external).   Suggested guidance.
   * Dick Brooks - guidance is going to be needed going forward.
   * William - pattern and use case section is hopefully going to help inform this in the future.  Example of splitting an ISO.
   * Karsten - Packages is component,  and Files area component details.
   * Dick - we need to get it more explicit;  so in standard spec langague.
   * Sean - will dig up the 3.0 definitions  & add in the 2.3 definitions.
