# SPDX Tech - June 28, 2022

## Attendees

* Kate Stewart
* Sebastian Crane
* David Edelsohn
* John Horan
* Joahua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* Bob Martin
* Alexios Zavras
* Thomas Steenbergen
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Adolfo GarcÃ­a Veytia
* Jeff Schutt
* Dick Brooks
* Brandon Lum
* Rose Judge (late)
* Rohan Chandrashekar (Student on GSoC - license management)

### Regrets
* William Bartholomew, Sean Barnum

## Agenda
* Quick review of Defects SPDX 3.0 example -  https://gist.github.com/tsteenbe/ea3c9ccf98a0130c5507ecf2e82b9398 (Thomas)
* SPDX 2.3 - outstanding
* Tools update for 2.3 spec
* Recap of meeting with CDX in Austin last week.

## Notes

### Defects 3.0 Example
* Walked through example GIST - looking for further updates from Sean & William, after this round of fixes

### 2.3 Outstanding
* Build is not working - need help from Thomas and/or William to get resolve.
   * Thomas is working on this actively.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/731 - MERGED
   * OK as is -   asking Sebastian to review.  - Sebastian OK, but creating PR for File to get aligned.
   * Discussions last week  - add in SHA-1DC (which is Git default) - create as separate PR - Gary to review.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/732  - MERGED
   * Sebastian review - ok'd
   * Rose asking about JSON representation - primaryPackagePurpose - is agreement from call.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/681
   * where are we with discussions?   Pending call in one hour for Syntax,  Friday call for Policy.
   * Not expecting 2.3 syntax change.
   * AI:  Alexios to put a comment if syntax is closed,  policy notes may take until next week.
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/679 --> retag 3.0
   * are we good to merge or not - Thomas input?   Decision to move this to 3.0

* Issues
   * need tagging pass and either move to 3.0 or get action ASAP.
   * AI: Kate to do a 2.3 tagging, and then triage.

* 2.3 Tools update
  * 90% of java tools updated to 2.3 spec at this point.  Java libraries used for validation, serializations updated.   Now waiting for last spec changes.   ie.  next version will be after last PR's in spec - tagged for - release candidate.
  * Can be used for experimentation time today.
  * Part of spec that costs most time
    * inconsistencies in enumerations "-" vs "_" in relationships.
    * spreadsheet format took the most time to update 2-3x TV.    TV was 3-4X over JSON schema testing made it much more simple to update.
    * Please report any issues against the tools java project if spot issues.

* Update from Austin F2F discussions
   * Joshua
      * way to package up multiple documents is need.  (currently tar ball)
      * Finding filename from external document reference, is going to be needed.  ** 2.3?  JSON file ancillary.
      * Runtime dependences may have cyclical dependencies,  but may have challenge describing this in the documents.   Currently using Amends.
https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/728    cyclic runtime dependencies
https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/727    find filenames for SPDX Docs
      * Open question can this wait to 3.0?   Sebastian to discuss with Joshua in late July for 3.0
      * Thomas:  Most build tool are breaking cyclic dependencies.    Josh:  not compile time, just run time dependencies.   Thomas: we break this up in ORT, as memory leak area.   Don't alllow cycles in same scope.  Note this happens in Node, allows recur once, then cut off.   ie.  NPM list does this.
      * Possibly worth a discussion in Implementers meeting.
 * Brandon: planning to look at distribution and propigation of SBOMs.   Thinking about SBOM generated, and then another tool to stitch different SBOM documents together.   Depends on file with hash, and callback with contents (per Alexios),  use Amends for area where there are NOASSERTIONS.   Change pointing to right t document.   Thomas interested in having a chat on this topic as well - sharing what's been done in Germany.
 * Adolfo:  Congratulate Gary on moving the collaboration effort with CDX - technical tone was helpful.   Want to keep this direction going forward.
 * Gary:
     * Meeting with CDX team was productive.
     * Allan Friedman was effective moderator.
     * Objective - make sure people don't hesitate due to conflict.
     * Some work between Gary & Patrick - conversion tools are lossy - went over reasons why it is lossy.   SPDX 2.3 addresses the lossy conversion at this point.   Jesse was very collaborative as well.   Things to improve interoperability.   Sonatype - public data,  conversion utility will be run through their data, and see what info is lost, and what needs to be done to become less lossy.    Once 2.3 spec is out, work will start.    When the analysis is done,  will improve tools.
     * Tool in Gary's repo will be moved to SPDX, once it is ready to move over.  Looking for at least 2 maintainers.
     * CDX Version of 1.4 is what will be targetted for interoperated.    Vex material is in scope for 1.4;  that will be lossy for SPDX 2.3 - but we will be able to put external-ref to their VEX doc,  or separate document.  Possibly CSAF?  Still area of work.   Dick:  CSAF security is fairly stable.
     * If there are Java libraries that import these other standards, please let Gary know.
     * David - VEX would have a much faster cadence than SBOMs.   SBOM could reference a VEX series/resource rather than a specific VEX file.  Gary - CDX compatibiliy, only needs one file.  Sebastian: SBOM may have higher assurance than VEX distribution - may want to reference individual VEX file.
     * Brandon - chatting with OSV folks - planning to write tooling to write VEX documents.   Extracting minimum outside CSAF spec, in Go.  Happy to share notes.
     * Sebastian - if trust SPDX SBOM distribution, may want to link individual distribution better?
     * Dick - NIST identifies vulnerability disclosure reports are expected,  but described in IEC29147:2018
     * Kate - Sal from Sonatype interested in helpiing us with on ramp and documentation.  Possibly doc feedback and on ramping.   Looking for offers to help would be welcome.
     * Josh - per SBOM


 * Dick noted: FYI, the SBOM SIG filed recommendations to NIST to align SBOM data and NVD: https://www.nist.gov/document/responses-enhancing-software-supply-chain-security-sbom
 * Dick: CSAF security advisory document (profile 4) is very stable and used in production, i.e. Siemens. CSAF VEX (profile 5) is still a work in progress. NIST has recommended the use of "vulnerability disclosure reports" following IEC 29147:2018, at the SBOM component level" in their Executive Order 14028. A proposed example for VEX and VDR's SECURITY External reference. "Maintain vendor vulnerability disclosure reports at the SBOM component level. "  https://www.nist.gov/itl/executive-order-14028-improving-nations-cybersecurity/software-security-supply-chains-software-1

In person:
    - SCITT meeting in Philidelphia - July 23-29.  IETF meeting.   July 28th.
    - Fintech day in London - July 14 - Kate & Thomas
