SPDX Tech Team meeting - 8th Feb 2022

## Attendees
* Bob Martin
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximillian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* FOSDEM recap
* GSOC
* SPDX 2.3
* Defects
* SPDX 3.0 Model

## Notes
* Sebastian: Amends? - update by adding relationship.  (see end of the notes from last week.

### FOSDEM
* SCA & Dependency Devroom - Tool focused talks -
https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/room/ddependency/
* SCANOSS - controversial discussion on open source
* SW360 talk can export SPDX documents. Better support for the OSADL data, with inline editor for license data.
* First panel discussion
* Vulnerabilities direction for next talks.
* CVE-Bin tool talk; can identify binaries in shared libraries folder and uses custom rules to match versions. Doesn't rely on system package manager.
* Thomas gave talk about ORT and it's development.
* Alpine talk about them looking to produce SBOMs at builds. Comparison with commercial tools. Quite interesting in the panel section.
* Talk about call graphs to understand whether vulnerable code paths are reachable.
* Backporting practices in dependency networks
* DependencyTrack talk about what it can do
* Gary and Kate's talk about using open source vulnerabilities databases; usefulness of SPDX relationships in describing vulnerabilities.
* Sebastian gave a talk on security devroom
https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/event/security_sbom/
What features to make available in standard format.

### GSOC
* Alexios is on point for GSOC.
* WIKI - https://wiki.spdx.org/view/GSOC/GSOC_ProjectIdeas

### SPDX 2.2.2 & 2.3
* Contributions from community members including Jayman2000, rivettp and lhh on GitHub
* SPDX 2.2.2 - ok with Kate review & accept.   Thomas volunteers to help with setting up 2.3 branch.
* Gary - requests Thomas review the continuous generation script. https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/617
* Introduction of Classification on 2.3 - see Nisha patch - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/622
* Legal Team suggested relaxing the requirement to fill mandatory fields with NOASSERTION by omitting field entirely
* Desire to link out to more external data (SWID-tags) with possibly hash.  (+1 from Henk as opaque payoload)
* Link external attetestions VEX documents)
* From DocFest, many wanted SPDX to clarify the artefact use to better identify that a Package describes a container image as well as binary file that is a package.
* There is information in PURL about the type.   OCI - no type qualifier.  Private - identifier that didn't specify location for.   Some support to have both separate.   Optional of location.   - Private packages, unique identifier & types being addressed handled here.   Signing & media types - only certain types make sense to sign

### Defects
* Defects call - Thomas has not set up call yet; is figuring out best time slot for participants. Wednesday slot was best so far https://doodle.com/poll/9752zbs29fn6ch77 -  starting next week. 2/16
* Adding in to 2.3 - link into security vulnerability information.   First topic to address.  Method predefined.
* Can CSAF be used?   to be considered.   NIST guidance should be consulted (https://www.nist.gov/itl/executive-order-improving-nations-cybersecurity/software-supply-chain-security-guidance).  The question to be answered, via a NIST attestation: What is the vulnerability status of product P, version V from Supplier S at time(t) at the SBOM component level?
* Talking to OSV?   Thomas has been talking to Russ Cox.  Probably worth reviewing to link against.
* Further discussion needed about embedded scenario.   Thomas to circulate with Russ.
* Steve:  At time an SBOM is created, here are the vulnerabilities known about a package.   Handling updates on scan results?
* William:  Information is ALWAYS at a point in time.   SBOM is at a point in time.   Vulnerability is at a point of time.   Note:  We have to separate SPDX 2.3 vs SPDX 3.0 - scope will be different.   Use case of wrapping VEX in SPDX to tie into graphs, leveraging external maps. etc.
* VEX: https://docs.oasis-open.org/csaf/csaf/v2.0/cs01/csaf-v2.0-cs01.html#45-profile-5-vex & Also useful: https://zt.dev/posts/what-is-vex/
* Dick:  just like a CARFAX report - I want to know the status now. I think of the fixed VIN -> CARFAX is akin to SBOM -> VULN Attestation (time T)   Also note:  It appears that VEX does not answer the question posted, according to the CSAF community: https://github.com/oasis-tcs/csaf/issues/407#issuecomment-1031248191

### SPDX 3.0 Core Specification

* William:  Working to get a diagram up there, and working on punch list. +1
* From last meeting - only flag is that implication on Package Verification code?   This can now be handled by 1:many relationships, and make them semantically equivalent with SPDX 2.2.   Note we will have to document the implmentation of 2.2 using relationships.
* Gary:  No two package verification codes was the same in docfest,  challenge was which files they were including.   Being explicit will help here.
* AI:  document package verification code, and update model
* David: agree that concensus on approach, but we should document use case where update to packages are not sequential.   There is potential ambiguity on how to represent the graph.
* Bring Purpose into 2.3 (AI Kate to formulate a proposal for 2.3, and bring back.   When William
* Include Relationship discussion into 2.3 (check is Supercedes is handled,  and what is version changing, and non, compared to SWID, .... be very careful here. )
* Sean:  There may be vocabularities that are software specific and those that are core specific.
* William: Intent to extend relationship types in profiles,  may carry additional information.   My general semantic issue with "type" or "classification" is that you can classify something on different dimensions (size, color, etc.), so it's ambiguous.

* Willilam:  Should creation related aspect of element be broken out to its own class?   ie. be good to avoid duplication of creation information.    Creation of SBOM element - created-by, etc.
   * Sean has concerns about atomicity and integrity of issue - so needs to be bound to things characteristics,  lower integrity across multiple forms of transport.
   * Gary - believes it should also be separated out.   It should be considered like Checksum.   From a logical model, creation information is a separate.
   * Sean - relationships and integrity can be seaprated,  others are inherent to element.   At a serialization, should be able to optimize this.
   * Creation event information most likely affects multiple elements at same time. Most common scenario is that multiple elements are created at the same time, so would like to ensure that all creation data is the same among those elements.
  * David: Using a seperate structure of 'created by' and created time fields was to preserve atomicity. Doesn't see that claim that splitting out fields to be valid.
* Is the creation event a class and property on element?   Properties have to be transporeted with the element.   Relationships have a choice.
* Gary like approach, as some things need to be serialized together.   Sean, as soon as integrating from multiple places, from sensitivity of sharing, no guarantee that everything there.  Atomocity was only way of dealing with this in other efforts.   Sean advocating serialization as optimization.   Gary - spec should say they should be serialized together.   We should represent logicalness at logical level.
* General agreement, that creation event is always atomic.  A creator does something at specific time.  Different creator at same time, will create different creator.
