SPDX Tech Team meeting - 22nd Feb 2022

## Attendees
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* Dick Brooks
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Nicholas
* Nisha Kumar
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Vera Schnells

## Regrets
* Gary (may be dialing in for last portion)
* William (Panel presentation conflict)
* Kate (conflict on last portion)

## Agenda
* GSOC
* SPDX 3.0 Workshop Day Idea
* SPDX 3.0 Model cont.

## Notes
### Misc
* GSOC:   please submit in any ideas, willingness to mentor ideas to WIKI page at: https://wiki.spdx.org/view/GSOC/GSOC_ProjectIdeas#Ideas_for_2022_Projects
* Trivy has added in CycloneDX, and translation tool should be able to convert to SPDX.
* Defects meeting: continuing tomorrow.   Note:  2.3 may make some licensing things optional.   Status for Lincensing profile 3.0,  waiting on core.
* Github actions change is blocking 2.3 branch being cut.

### SPDX 3.0 Workshop & Punch list burn down
 * March 11  Bob, Sean, Sebastian, Nisha, Karsten,  Dick, Thomas S
 * March 25 Bob, and others alternate if 11th doesn't work.
 * Request from Nisha to Clean up and Link 3.0 Model assets.
    * There is boiler plate that is not 3.0,  many different places in git.
    * Minutes area is up to date,  clean up links.   Some misleading.
    * Boilerplate spec is problematic,  relabeled as 3.0 **

### SPDX 3.0

* Generally agreed in last meeting to have one-to-many relationships
* Bob likes Sean's idea of having a property on relationships that says whether it is directional or not.
* Time range for relationship validity. optional start time, optional end time fields.
* Should lack of field imply a default time (SBOM) or no statement about time.
* Wildcard time allowed for start and end.
* How represent optional dependencies with multiple, mutually-exclusive dependencies.
* how to represent runtime dependency
* Reminder:  there are three types of sboms,  source, build, binary
* how to express package manager placeholder dependencies in SBOM dependencies
* relationship to describe services?

## Upcoming
* SPDX 2.3
* Cleaning up boiler plate 3.0 spec.
