# SPDX Tech Team meeting - 20 September

## Attendees
* Brandon Lum
* Bryan Cowan
* David Kemp
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Hewett
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* John Horan
* Joshua Watt
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Nisha Kumar
* Saul Wold
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew
* Henk Birkholz

## Agenda
* Safety use case
* Security profile
* PDF
* SPDX 3.0

## Notes
* Security profile
  * Need guidance on when it is appropriate to extend a profile
  * William: Lots of things that are not artifacts. Advisory may inherit from element with a core set of properties, then use external references to link to upstream information
  * Jeff: in some contexts there may be a need to include status information, but the SBOM is more static than the advisory information. So how compatible are the SBOM and the advisory data?
  * William: SPDX docs don't have to be static, but they do have to be immutable.
  * Jeff: If there is a cve fix upstream and downstream wants to consume it right away, the model should be able to support that. Trying to cater to different needs - open source vs commercial.
  * William: github API gives both SBOM and advisory associated, and make one SBOM document
  * Sebastian: possibly use the AMENDS relationship from element to advisory
  * Joshua: difference between the status of the advisory upstream and the status on a downstream product
  * How would you know if a relationship fixes a CVE? William: you could subclass Relationship called "Remediation". Sebastian: you can have a relationship between Patched package and cve

* Safety use case
  * Build profile: due to abstractions we cannot encode every single layer. If we did further analysis we could annotate it post build. Is there a need to have the data be represented in SPDX? How can we represent the "further analysis"
  * Is the safety requirement specific to SPDX or can it be something else. William: post processing may also generate SPDX content.
  * How should we represent "post analysis"? William: annotations are mostly for extra information for the consumer. Don't use that in the model. Can use either a relationship or use a property like a build ID.
  * Extention capabilities: different systems have diff env format,s but need to be converted to some canonical format, e.g. cmdline args are a map of map[string]any
  * Should build elements meant to be complete? This is a version of the depth problem... (parallel to dependency problem, i depend on this package, but not sure what's in it, but later on can augment that information). "SPDX facilitates incremental discovery of data".
