# SPDX Tech - April  19, 2022

## Attendees

* Brandon Lum
* Dick Brooks
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Rose Judge
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Sebastian Crane
* Bob Martin
* Sean Barnum
* Max Huber
* William Bartholomew
* Henk Birkholz
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp

### Regrets
* Kate Stewart

## Agenda

* New Persons
* Issues to dicuss
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/657
  * feedback on https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/622 (PackagePurpose SPDX 2.3).
* 2.2.2 Release
* 2.3 Adding Security Info to SPDX (Thomas)
  * Draft specification available for comments see https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/658
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/development/v2.2.2/chapters/external-repository-identifiers.md has locators for each field but for security info fields are URLs for which regex makes not sense what to do?
  * Where to place additional guidance for exchanging security info using SPDX - new annex or seperate doc?
  * Defects-SG related: If no CPE or SWID is associated with a CVE, how to associate a CVE? Via CVE name? Is
    that yet another identifier?
* 3.0 - progress
  * Update on last meeting
* 3.0 Questionnaire
  * filePurpose "CONFIGURATION" ?
  * filePurpose "PATCH" & relationshipType "PATCH_FOR" or "AMENDS"
  * How to express a dependency on single file from upstream described in another SBOM document? What's the
    "to" in this case? Is the "DEPENDS_ON" relationship used?
    * What was the exact difference between an externalMap and a externalReference again?


## Notes

### Setting up a tooling focused SPDX call?
* Rose: Talked to Kate about setting up a SPDX tooling community? This could be a place for those who are implementing SPDX-interoperable consumption or document creation tools to discuss best practices around how fields are populated, identify instances where different use cases might lead to different choices for fields and structures of documents, and perhaps assess how well the NTIA SBOM elements are covered in these documents that the tools are creating. Want to gauge interest from the community
* Gary: Have already to many meetings, maybe an alternative communication way
* William: OpenSSF uses Slack
* Thomas: We have SPDX Gitter see https://gitter.im/spdx-org
* Gary: Rose does Gitter cover your needs?
* Rose: Weekly cadence maybe too much, but chat-room only is not usually productive for substantative discussions -- do folks prefer monthly instead?
* Thomas: +1 see need for deeper discussions on say modeling a npm or maven dependency tree in SPDX
* Henk: Try to do a cadence as needed
* Gary: How does this meeting align to the docFest and the open chain tooling workground? Want to make sure that is no overlap
* Thomas: Suggest calling it implementers workgroup
* William: Having a implementers group may also be useful to the GSoC
* Henk: Recommend not to do monthly as people often have meeting conflicts
* Bob: Recommend bi-weekly
* Gary: Do it every other week to the OpenChain Reference Tooling workgroup
* Thomas: Recommend to create a Doodle
* Rose: Will create a doodle with some options and email SPDX Tech mailing list

### 3.0 Questionnaire

* For expressing a security vulnerbility I wanted to express a file was only use as a configuration file, should we add a filePurpose "CONFIGURATION" ?
* Henk: fyi filePurpose is a new field added to the spec

* Henk: there is filePurpose "PATCH" & relationshipType "PATCH_FOR" or "AMENDS" why?
* Gary: Think it's fine to have both
* Henk: Can someone explain "AMENDS"
* William: "AMENDS" is at the SPDX document level, why "PATCH_FOR" for packages
* Thomas: Should we not simplify?
* William: useful to have "AMENDS" be different since someone following the SPDX graph can only focus on the document changes
* Thomas: Should we have better documenation - e.g. these relationships only apply to SPDX documents, these relationships only apply to SPDX files
  * William: Agree we should have better documentation
  * Sebastian: Should we just have guidelines rather than restrictions
* Thomas: How do you validate?
  * Validation is very difficult - because it SPDX very flexible
* William: "AMENDS" is special - we should strictly define AMENDS - tooling should strictly follow AMENDS semantics, the others are more flexible
  * How to express a dependency on single file from upstream described in another SBOM document? What's the
    "to" in this case? Is the "DEPENDS_ON" relationship used?
  * William: Use "HAS_PREREQUISITE"?  Use PREREQ... when you are expecting a different actor to put the dependency there
    * What was the exact difference between an externalMap and a externalReference again?
      * Namespace demarcation can be a '#' or dash?
      * Namespace which use the '#' demarcation can not end in a '#'?
      * In the end - the Namespace + ID must be a valid URI
  * Do we have a relationship type that infers inheriting a license?
    * Gary: No.  Concious decision since the relationship type would involve an opinion (which we try to avoid opinions within the SPDX doc - preferring facts)
  * Follow-up: Are fragments allowed in the URI
    * If we restrict to absolute URIs, fragments are excluded
    * If we exclude fragments, we can no longer references to SPDX 2.X documents
    * Add to a future agenda - need to rediscuss

### Community Specification Documentation
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/657
* Thomas: Contributing MD doesn't refer to the Community Specification Documentation
* DCO Process: Is this consistent with the Community Specification Documentation

### PackagePurpose SPDX 2.3
* Request for all folks on the call to review the issue
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/622

## 2.3 Adding Security Info to SPDX (Thomas)
  * Question on locator case - lower case
  * Draft specification available for comments see https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/658
    * Thomas will email tech list for a review
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/development/v2.2.2/chapters/external-repository-identifiers.md has locators for each field but for security info fields are URLs for which regex makes not sense what to do?
    * This can be any pointer
    * If we don't have a regex, we can't validate
    * Currently referring to URL RFC - No disagreement on the call to this approach
  * Where to place additional guidance for exchanging security info using SPDX -new annex or seperate doc?
    * Options: new Annex, Examples repo, Best practices
    * William: Annex would be good from a marketing perspective - one page, easy to reference
    * Jeff: In 3.0 we need to be able to separate out the spec from the implementation
    * General consensus - for 2.x add to the Annex
    * Should we separate out the security information from the existing Annex F?
      * William: Propose separate Annex for security
      * Consensus: Leave the existing Annex F - create new Annex for the additional security information
      * Create new "How To Annex"
  * Defects-SG related: If no CPE or SWID is associated with a CVE, how to associate a CVE? Via CVE name? Is
    that yet another identifier?
* Bob: The issue is lifecycle for CVE. Depending when you start refering CVE it might not have a CPE
* Jeff: Reference can be to anything so in the beginning it may simply be a link to a code commit
* Thomas: When a CPE is published you can publish a new SBOM to amend the previous SBOM with the CPE

## Next Week's Agenda
* 3.0 - progress
  * Update on last meeting
