# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2022-11-22
## Attendees
* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* Joshua Watt
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Michael Herzog
* Sen Hastings
* Wayne Beaton
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Repository for specification status (Alexios & William)
* Review glossary of terms from last week (Gary)
* Review remaining punchlist items (William)
   * Should Actor have its own identifier property?
   * Do we deprecate external reference types that are now covered by PURL?
   * Moving comment from element to CreationInfo


## Notes:

### Specificaton Repository (Alexios, William)
* Most of stubs have been added to William's framework.
* Alexios will be finished by this weekend.
* Topic for next week, any outstanding stubs needed.
https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model

### Glossary
* In ratifying Friday decisions, some of the term definitions, needed to be clarified.
* This is a pull request  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/45
* Data Type - David suggests copying UML definition
* Domain - Alexios suggests "of interest" rather than "of concern".
   * Real world is domain.   Logical rep is the profile.   Physical rep is the namespace.
   * The namespaces contain classes,  Classes have properties,  Properties have datatypes.
* Constraints: Can make things more restrictive - ie SHA-256 is required, may also have to include include SHA-512.   Constraints are within a profile.   Maximilian - like a validation rule?   Yes.
   * Max raises some concern, that constraints are tacked on, due to limitations of object oriented view of the datamodel and that it might get messy.
* Namespace:  Henk Birkholz suggests using RFC 2611 - " 2.0 What is a URN Namespace? For the purposes of URNs, a "namespace" is a collection of uniquely-assigned identifiers. A URN namespace itself has an identifier in order to ensure global uniqueness of URNs"
* Alexios notes that Core definition should be "profile" not "namespace"
* David - JSON Schema defines the term "well-formed" for syntactic validation and "valid" for semantic validation.  "Validation" by itself could be at the syntax level or a semantic level.
* Henk notes that "RFC 1085 Serialization: The process of applying an abstract transfer notation to an object described using abstract syntax notation one (ASN.1) [ISO8824] in order to produce a stream of octets. De-serialization is the inverse process."  Serialization (today) maybe: an object translated into a specific byte representation, such as asn.1, xml, json, cbor, etc.  or Serialization: The representation of a data item as a sequence of bytes.  Deserialization: Reconstitution of a data item from a serialization
* Discussion circled back to where do properties reside.
* Dick - should there be an objective function defined?   Domain is serving this at a broad level.   Could see NTIA vs. NIST guidance.    Max indicates that a company may define specific profiles?  William - nothing in design procludes this.   NTIA minimum - could be a particular domain.
* Max - I think we should disintangle
    * extensions to capabilities of data represtation
    * restrictions to what is acceptable / good enough data
* William - Domains aren't really heirarchy.   More "areas of interest",  could be broad or narrow.  Could have a profile that only adds classes, or only add rules.    At some point must index into a set of types.   Bundle types together.   For profiles there won't be types.
* David - Class: A blueprint for creating an object.  Every class is defined within a namespace.
   * Alexios: I think it would be more useful if "serialization" is the result, not the process.  "this is a JSON serialization of your data" -- otherwise, we need another word for it.
* Gary - Core profile is Union of all the classes.    We need a separate way to distinguish between profile constraints and profile namespace.   William:  profile is combination of namespace & constraints (some of which can be empty).    William - constraint can refer to things in one or more profiles.
* Next steps - William will take

### Punchlist
  * Should Actor have its own identifier property?  (need to circleback with Sean)
     * Possible solution from William - need an interface that gives comonality to actor and identy.   Not forced to always create identity or actor.   Can be done by interface rather than multiple inheritance.
     * David seems reasonable, but trying to define serialized data.
     * William - depending on serialization method, type would be defined.
     * Gary - concern about simple JSON & YAML don't have easy way to communicate types.
     * Discussion of options with diagram.
     * Gary: can we look at actor having an optional identity properties.
     * William:  could work, with augmentation by relationships.   (drew this on model)
     * Gary: Could use precedence rules to resolve potential conflicts.
     * General concensus on call to try the optional identy property approach.   Some concerns about a lot of redundant information, as well as size of generated file.
     * Concern on size from Max re: serializations 2.3 exmaple, converted to 3.0, dropping everything that is not yet supported = 1014 Lines

## Future topics to consider:
  * Website rebuilt
  * Discussion on RDF OWL website https://spdx.org/rdf/terms/
