# SPDX Tech Team Meeting  2022-11-15

## Attendees
* Adolfo Garcia Veytia
* Alexios Zavras
* David Edelsohn
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Ivana Atanasova
* Jeff Schutt
* Jennie Kauffmann
* John Horan
* Joshua Watt
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Maximillian Huber
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* Sen Hastings
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Infrastructure - Alexios & Willam
* Review of 2.3 to 3.0 Migration Spreadsheet from Friday
* Review remaining items from Friday 4 Nov 2022 call:
  * Adding to OTHER to hash algorithm enumeration & Comment to Integrity method
**  * Should Actor have its own identifier property? - William will clean the model diagram for a discuss today
  * Relationships will be 1 to many type relationships
  * Keep the current 2.3 cardinality of relationship completeness - optional with a default "Known" --> COMPLETE
  * Allow optional fields with defined default values --> optional in serializations.
  * New items added:
**    * Do we deprecate external reference types that are now covered by PURL?
**    * Moving comment from element to CreationInfo

* Future topics to consider:
  * Website rebuilt
  * Discussion on RDF OWL website https://spdx.org/rdf/terms/

## Notes
* Repository
   * William to add his repo structure into Alexios structure
   * Alexios is to add in new markdown from diagram

* Maximillian Working through migration spreadsheet
  * Concern over namespace - missing information in some instances.
  * CC-0 license came up from Karsten - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/159
    * Refer to bring up suggestions to SPDX legal team for further discussion
  * File - content type - cardinality change needs to be resolved, others should be able to be mapped.   There are media types that allow combination, which wasn't possible via enums.
  * William:  Package purpose - is logical use,   File content type - is phyical use.
  * Max: is there an equivalent of OTHER in Mime Types?  William:  yes - OCTETStream type.
  * Discussion, do we allow multiple media types?  (like 2.3)  We have mixed physical and logical types today.  If not we may fail migrations.   https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Type
     * TODO:  Create a mapping from all enum to file content type - determine after if multiple ok.
  * Contributor:  may be liensing property to resolve?
  * where does version info go --> PURL  -- what do if don't have?  use generic PURL name & version.   URI dependency.  Name and Version is in consistent location.
  * name is inherited from Element --> doesn't need
  * Gary notes there are a few people on the call uncomfortable with removing VersionInfo.
  * Adolfo if one package can have multiple PURLs, how handle.
    * William - primary at package level, and way via extensions of specifying others.
    * Sebastian - The follow-up question is whether Package Version has value when the version is encoded in the Package Name. The NTIA seems to think that Version is a different thing from Name, but I'm not so sure that's *always* the case.
    * Jeff - we should allow multiple for now.   Dick agrees as well, due to NTIA requirement.
  * William:  @Sebastian not sure it matters since a human can distinguish, I'd encourage not storing the version in the Name portion if you can easily split it out, if you can't then you put it all in the Name and leave Version empty
     * @William; thank you :) I guess that makes most sense for things like 'libthing2', where a new revision gets its own name.
     * William:  Decision Plan of record: We'll add packageVersion: String[0..1] and describe how to use them in spec list.

* PackageFileName - being a directory - how handle?   Challenge is NPM package.  Not sure how it can be handled in different locations in different projects.   Sebastian working on change proposal with Jeff working on gitoid.

* Supplier - work in progress in model?   William - "Supplied by" relationship - to actor or identity?   "Originated by"?

* What will be doing with "FilesAnalyzed"?   There is semantic meaning encoded in this that folks may want to preserve.    Possibly might want this in "collection?"  Link to files - relations?   We do have relationship completeness.   Max - different semantic meaning.   Would like to see this revisited.

* Package verification code - exclusion information is missing?
   * William - most integrity methods will allow extensions of inforamtion for particular hash algs.
   * Interest in preserving information.

* In documentation for Packages - need to make sure we're reflecting this as a grouping.

* Identifier - William not convinced should be IRI,  but external references should be IRI.
  * Sebastian - how handle primary key in database?
  * Gary - one example is CPE.  We should be using the criteria "could be transformed to an IRI - this adds complexity to the use of SPDX compared to SPDX 2.X

* Discussion of Relationship completeness - agreement on "COMPLETE, INCOMPLETE, UNKNOWN"

* When moving from SPDX 2.3 - if contents are an SBOM need to wrap?
  * Would need to wrap in SBOM in JSON
  * If there is a "DESCRIBES" then we could it infer it is an SBOM.

### Punchlist Topics
* Review remaining items from Friday 4 Nov 2022 call:
  * Adding to OTHER to hash algorithm enumeration & Comment to Integrity method --> AGREED
  * Relationships will be 1 to many type relationships --> AGREED
  * Keep the current 2.3 cardinality of relationship completeness - optional with a default "Known" --> update to use COMPLETE instead of KNOWN, per discussion on call.
  * Allow optional fields with defined default values --> Can this be optional per serializations?  Yes.

### Reference 3.0 Examples to review:
- This is my in progress SPDX 3.0 .NET implementation, doesn't align completely with the model yet: https://iamwillbar.github.io/spdx3-dotnet/annotated.html
- SPDX3 json, generated with fully functional code implementing 90% of the model and can be parsed back. https://github.com/maxhbr/spdx-3-model.hs/blob/main/_testOut/SPDXJSONExample-v2.3.spdx.json.spdx3.json

Next week agenda - Content change proposal?
