# SPDX Tech Team Meeting (SPDX 3.0 Punchdown) - 4 November, 2022

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* Gary  O'Neall
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilllian Huber
* NIsha Kumar
* Sean Barnum
* William Bartholomew
* David Kemp

# Minutes

## Documentation questions related to the model
* Discussion related to licensing profile
* Need clarity if core is a union or common intersection of the profiles - subclassing.
* Gary raised that there may be multiple inheritance issues, with just common.
* Sean, we could be able to handle this with extensions.    Core+Softare+Licensing...  layered.   Note don't need to subclass artifacts, now licensing subuntology.  If want to add, then use.   Put on any objext.  ?? Get Sean to write.
* William:  there is an alternate way of thinking about this, that licensing isn't a property of the artifact but there's a separate "LicenseEvaluation" class that references the artifact. This allows you to have multiple evaluations by different people and for them to evolve over time. Just like vulnerabilities.   Own identifier with license information, and then could associate.    Artifact tracking implications.
* Sean: Just for clarity, everything I was saying was generally applicable across all profiles. I was not talking about the licensing use cases specifically.
* Maximillian: Concern about the use-case focus for this discussion,  real world vs. database.   re: extending the model, concern about composibility - AI vs. Licensing vs. Build.   Concern that the extend approach will not be as compositional.
* Gary:  Concern that it will increase complexity for the licensing use cases by heading if not using properties.   Queries, extensions/shapes will get things more complicated.   Please use metric of complexity when discussing this.  https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/main/tech/2021/2021-02-16.md
* Sean: Want to let sub communities focus on their own profile, without impacting other profiles.   Interpreting profile, what part of the model will you use, and a namespace with in it.   Assertion of which parts of the model were relevant for a particular area.  Different than adding to core.
* Bob:  Compliance points for profiles.
* Sean: If property was defined in core.   You can do this by having a namespace as the extension of profile.
* William:  One model, one namespace.   Through view of profile - types relevant to profile.   Core is a profile, brings from model unmodified, with no new constraints.   Software profile, unmodified with no new constraints.  Licensing profile, would bring in fields, and constraints to underlying model.    We have one underlying model, but looking at the "view".
* Sean: profiles can be viewed as clear textual description of scope,  SHAQL defines shapes on how validation.  Each profile defines shapes.   Concern is how to manage the evolution around subprofile evolution.
* William:  Do we want to version profiles was decided as no.  So extend that decsion to keep things simple here.   Not sure we have to conflate one namespace with model.
* Nisha: Request to abstract away from SHAQL terminology in discussion.
* Sean: If have data, supposed to be conformant to the model, contains SBOM, any of those things, is about how you validate it to the standard?   JSON Schema will actually check - having only one instance.   SHAQL is to the model itself.
* Gary: Union of the properties, and then views on profiles will help simplify.  Agree with William to start simple, and then add the constraints on which properties are mandatory.
* Nisha: What is the disadvantage to the union?  Consumer will always see a small set there.
* Sean: There are simplicity for consumer, producer, definition of management of spec.   For layered model extending for different model, serialization tricks, for managing evolution of stuff going forward.   Lowers churn on evolution - for simplicity over time.
* William: Don't believe choosing to merge them now, negates us going down other path later, version profiles later.   Do expedient right now.   Key is to avoid blocking the ability to do things later.
* Suggestion to have different namespaces for different profiles as a way to mange the complexity
* Gary and Nish seconded/thirded Williams proposal to start with a union model
* Sean - starting with the union would make it difficult or impossible to change back to a simple model.  If we start with the extension approach, it would be simpler
* Description of how you would serialize an extension approach
  * Example for concluded license - Artifact object would have an extensions property which would in turn have a concluded license property as opposed to just having the concluded license property directly on artifact
  * This is only for adding properties
  * Subclasses are not impacted by this
* Kate - if this applies all profiles, it would apply to the Software profile?
* Gary - make this a tentative decision to go with William's - revisit after we have all the properties added to the core classes and see if it is really a mess or not.
* Sean - needs to drop, but will look at external identifier punch forward ...https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/29
* Gary to send out minutes before Tuesday including the decision matrix

## 3.0 Punch List

### External Identifer and External Reference
* Do we make these abstract, concrete or sealed classes?
  * Abstract - must subclass
  * Concrete - can subclass
  * Sealed - cannot subclass
* Proposal - make these concrete - they can still be subclassed in the future
* [Decision] - make them concrete

### Annotation Types
* Already made decision that we keep the existing 2.3 annotation types.
*  can always propose additional.

### Make sure the Enums are complete with 2.3
* Agree the list needs to be consistent
* William did a recent pass
* Need to double check
* Missing 2 new relationships RequirementFor and SpecificationFor - William added them during the call
* William will create a PR with the updated model and send Kate the link
* AI: Kate to take an fine tooth path, and reviewed, before we move it to text.
* Max suggested maintaining in a file rather than the diagram
 * William agrees once we finish the first pass, we can move to separate files
* Can we add the new relationship types here?
  * Will do this after we decide how we decide how to document

### How do profiles extend the enumeration list?
* Profiles as views into underlying model - enum type in core, just see a subset of values that are relevant to the profile.  This would be the union approach.   But keep track of all the new enumeration values added, so track for reviewing.   Note: a lot of languages don't allow you to subclass ENUMs.   Which is a concern.
* David Kemp: Union approach seems reasonable for profiles, may not work for non-standard extensions.
* Does anyone object to ENUM values for profiles will be merged into core?
* [Decision] Core model will have the union of all enum values from profiles - we'll check later if this creates a mess and revisit once all enum values are collected


### How do tools handle enumeration types they don't recognize?
* Tools will have to handle recognition of the enumeration types.   Forward compatibility will require understanding.
* Gary: An enum value you don't understand, gets mapped to "other", is approach he's using today.  But it does fail validation.
* Alexios: If encounter random stream as a validation type, then can't validate as SPDX or not.  May need to be able process them.
* [Decision] If trying to use a relationship type (or any enum),  use other as the relationship type, and use extension to provide detail of relationship type.   From a spec perspective it's just other.   From a tool implementer perspective,  if you want to be forward compatible, you can ignore relationship types don't understand.
* This is implementaton advice we'll provide and doesn't changes the model.
* Max suggested that for the implementor use OTHER as the last choice, e.g. if it is a contains relationship with a more specific type, you should use contains then add an extension to further describe
* Should we add OTHER to other enumerations?
  * Would make it consistent
  * Should also add comment so the producer could describe the additional
  * David: for hash, we could have a hash value type and each type has an algorithm
  * [Decision] Adding to OTHER to hash algorithm enumeration & Comment to Integrity method.

### Should Actor have its own identifier property?
* Concern is diagram is wrong.   Actor isn't an element.   Circular loop.
* Model adjusted.
* David referenced  Agree adding properties to Actors, so it can be used like 2.3 - name, etc. ...
* Change:  Move Actor to Data Types.
* Originated becomes a property - Originated by Actor.
* Kate: common use case today is multiple tools & people may be used to create SBOMs.
* David: Actor may be a consortium of 5 organizations, etc.
* Further discussion,  William will clean up model, and we'll verify it on tuesday.
* David:  Name?
  * William:  Contextual (name property to actor) or ....
  * David:  1..* actors - name to a group
  * William:  Once have that level of information, you should just model it as an organization.   ie. shouldn't be using actor for this.

### Relationship
* From is a singular element,  To is one or more element.
   * More context to relationship completeness.   "Known complete, incomplete, or unknown"
   * Serialization benefit - Package contains 1000 files (single from many to).
   * Relatioship has been biased that "to" is most likely multiple.
   * Container to contained item.   Depending on.
   * No property that says invert, can only do this by from & to swapping.
   * Can only invert the ones non directional.
   * Nisha: Do we have indication of which are bi directional, and which ones aren't.
   * Directionality - OTHER is unknown
   * Nisha: Build profile has some relationship.   "Build Invoked by"
   * William:  Relationships should have directionality indicated, and expectations on from:to in tables, and so on.
   * Kate:  We need to be able to carry more textual explanations than is there today.
   * William:  we should provide better guidance, and turn it into constraints that can be checked.
   * [Decision] We are moving forward with 1:many for now
   * Use case descriptions should not block concensus.

* AI: Alexios & William to deconflict framework, and merge.
    * For every model/class - Summary & Description
    * For every model/property - has a separate file.   Summary & Description.   Where it is and what value it takes.
    * For every spdx-3-model/model/enumartion - different values it can take.   Entries are defined, and descriptions put there.
    * Files need to be created manually, and then populated.
    * AI:  William to mix Alexios model into what he had easily, so there is a stub file for each item.
    * Teaching how to do it sync up, and test whether it works.
    * Kate wants to know where someone puts PRs against - need this from William & Alexios.
    * Profiles get to be top level - see: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/tree/main/model/Core
    * Topic for next Tuesday.

### Cardinality of Relationship Completeness
* William - having optional and default is consistent with other approaches - e.g. in concluded license NOASSERTION is the default,
* Current relationships default is Known - is that what we want
* Yes - is the default today and is the default in other standards
* [Decision] Keep as is - optional with default Known

### Articulate all the Enumerated relationship types for 3.0
* More of a action

### Enumeration: Consider adding "OTHER"
* Already decided above - yes we will add

### Create an spreadsheet Review 2.3 and 3.0
* Move an action, this is starting point of migration guide.
* Add in the depricated elements to the spreadsheet.

###  Do we want to restrict Enumerations or allow extensions? Historical we've kept it restricted for Consumer benefit.
* Already discussed above

### Profile extension
* Already discussed above

### Action to justify the deprecated things
* Can put this in the spreadsheet
* More of an action

### How do we handle optional fields with default values in model?
* We just talked about for relationship completeness above
* [Decision] Allow optional fields with defined default values

### New items added
* Do we deprecate external reference types that are now covered by PURL?
* Moving comment from element to CreationInfo
