SPDX Tech - March 15, 2022

## Attendees

* Bob Martin
* Brandon Lum
* Brian Fox
* Catalin
* Chris Hibbard
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Dick Brooks
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Maximilian Huber
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum (brief)
* Thomas Steenbergen

## Regrets
* Gary O'Neall
* William Bartholemew
* Nisha Kumar

## Agenda
* Another 3.0 Model working session?
* GSOC update?
* 2.2.2 - Release process
* 2.3 - Contents
* Introduction from Catalin

## Notes

* GSOC Organization approved
   * Sebastian to reach out to Max to see if they can help mentor to improve reuse.

* 3.0 next session.
* Sean windows - Next 3/18 - 10-2,   3/24 - open   - 3/25 - blocked.  10-1 on 4/1
*  AI:  Kate to send out poll and see if we can build up quorum.    Tech list.

* Catalin -
   * working on go and other languages, in Romanian university.
   * Interested in GSOC participation.
   * has already made contributions to go tool.  :-)

* 2.2.2
   * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/633 - other comfortable reviewing?   keep pinging Alexios
   * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/579 - new version?   add in new contributors and 2022 copyright.
     * Thomas working on updates, rather than new PR.
   * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/632 - needs PR to fix typo.  AI: Rose to open PR
   * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/604 - needs PR to fix typo AI: Rose
   * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/514 - needs PR to fix typo  AI: Sebastian **Done by Marc-Etienne before call**

* 2.3
   * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+milestone%3A2.3
      * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/635 - OK to merge once conflicst resolved.
      * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/464 - pending legal team input if 2.3 ok (Sebastian)
      * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/474 - update from Henk (henkbirkholz on GitHub)
      * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/547 - move this forward?   or OBE?  need gary input
      * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/628 --> https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/622

   * Other potential PR's to be generated for inclusion
      * External Reference - SWID tag ids - from call: no objections.   Just need volunteer.  **
      * External Reference to Defects/Vulnerabilities - pending Defects group discussion
       * Additional Hash types ( https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/626  )  ** AI: Sebastian** **Done**
       * Mulitple checksums (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/625) ** AI: Sebastian ** **Done**
       * Add ADLER32 checksum https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/624 ** AI: Sebastian ** **Done**
       * File intent update https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/623  - see if Paul will submit.
       * Update LicesnseRef example https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/605 * need volunteer *
      * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/636 - turn into PR?  yes - agreement.   but needs to be non breaking.
      * Clarity on File shall/cardinality https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/593 - turn into PR?  yes * need volunteer*
      * Additional Relationships for patches https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/582 - turn into PR?  basic agreement, but need to get some clarity.    Dick to take a pass at best practice to describe usage.

* What to do about:
    * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/587 - Sebastian looking this up,  reach to Alexios - added doc improvemnt/best practices.
    * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/577 - Rose indicates pending review from Alexios for XML, all rest in place.
    * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/571 - tagged for 2.3

Any others outstanding for 2.3?
* No one else bringing issues forward,  so above tagging is punch list.

* Brandon:  interest in build topics?
   * Yes,  starting discussion on mailing list

* Cleanups worked on during meeting
   * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/514 - was already applied.   Closed now.
