# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - May 8, 2024

## Attendees
* Keith Zantow
* Rose Judge
* Nisha Kumar
* Dick Brooks
* Joshua Watt
* Victor Lu
* Karsten Klein

## Agenda
* SPDX 3 in golang

## Notes
* Discussion around NVD staffing changes: https://nvd.nist.gov/general/news/nvd-program-transition-announcement
* Yocto project has an open letter to CVE if anyone is curious to read/sign it: https://github.com/yoctoproject/cve-cna-open-letter
* Golang SPDX tooling
  * https://github.com/spdx/tools-golang/issues/237
  * Not a 1:1 translation for the SHACL model to go implementation
  * In SPDX 3 model there is element which is abstract class. Trying to convert this into an interface in go.
    * Can we use struct embedding? No - weird circular relationship.
    * If we embed structs, some of the properties actually use the abstract base class from the SHACL model which means any class that implements the element interfact.
    * Go doesn't have strong concept of polymorphism. Name collisions happen when embedding structs.
    * Does go have anonymous objects with no type? Could make every class an interface and then have something that constructs the concrete classes that conform to all of the correct interfaces?
      * Don't think go can do this
    * Can we make placeholder interfaces for the core model?
    * Core model as interfaces seems much more dicfficult to use
    * Example: Model has a positiveInteger type. In the tool have made this into a type with certain type checking
    * https://github.com/JPEWdev/shacl2code/ 
    * Should we bring this up in the tech call that we are having trouble implementing this in go?
      * Nisha will open PR that we can ask for help on in the tech call
* Are SPDX tools ready to use? Python tools are furthest along but not published yet.
