# SPDX Implementers Team Meeting - May 1, 2023

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Anthony Harrison
* Chengjie Wang
* Nisha Kumar
* Victor Lu
* Mark Atwood
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Maximilian Huber
* Joshua Watt

## Agenda
* https://github.com/spdx/cdx2spdx/issues/42 - Hierarchical representation in SPDX
  * https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/875

## Notes
#### How do folks represent hierarchical relationships? How to do this in SPDX 3?
* CONTAINS = "shipped with"
* DEPENDS_ON = more related to the call graph
* Root is always the DESCRIBES_BY then follow the chain of relationships. Direct deps are the first "CONTAINS" then follow the second "CONTAINS" relationships to the directs
* Depends and contains are different trees that describe different situations
* Very few people make full use of the dependencies. A lot of folks use contains instead of depends on or static/dynamic link. This is not necessarily accurate.
  * Where can we put this guidance?
    * There are example repos where we are trying to fill with examples of user usecases not easily understood. trying to capture this with issues and linked PRs.
    * Maybe an annex?
    * SPDX 3 Trainings? None currently
* For relationships to denote hierarchical relationships, we need to consider the consmer side and how folks are going to use SBOMs to make business decisions. static/dynamic link are helpful from the dev side but maybe less so from the business pov
* Do we have any validation tools in SPDX 3 for people who want to check their docs?
  * Joshua has tools that can validate against SHACL but can't validate the output SPDX document against SHACL? - Need to look into this more
  *  https://git.yoctoproject.org/poky-contrib/plain/meta/lib/oe/spdx30.py?h=eec4d81baa0835cf3ff7bfba59c0648932e177ba 
  * It can support JSON files
  * Takes SHACL and produces a python file - the output of his tool is what we want to publish in SPDX repo
  * SHACL is the machine readable spec in RDF that comes out of the model - generated for SPDX 3. Joshua's python file can serialize and deserialize to JSON
    * We need tutorials for how to actually do this
* How to implement different profiles?
  * If you're talking about an SPDX file, it is an SPDX document. It has a property called "root element" which tells you where to start. Document describes is still there for compatability. Every Element has a list of profiles that it supports.
  * Use full URI (ID) of the external element to link documents together
* Max wrote the start to an example  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-serialization-prototype-playground/issues/26 - based off the general example started by security team
  * Implementation code/JSON documents
* Rose will move the drawio file to: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/tree/master/software so we can start to write actual JSON examples 
* Request to change this call to every week since SPDX 3 is out and folks are busy working on tools - Rose will update the meeting invite
* Gary will present in two weeks 
