# SPDX Technical Team - 7th December 2021

## Attendees

* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Maximilian Huber
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* End of year meetings?  21, 28 ??
* Punch list of outstanding questions - not solutions
* Serializations

## Notes
*  Dec 14th will be last meeting of SPDX tech team for the year.

### Punch list of Questions
* What is ambiguous, what is problem trying to be solved.

#### External Reference
* Do we need Comments on External Reference?
* We need to define the types of external refernces?

#### Extensions (specialized use long term, and new short term until model - it's an extension onto element)
* Extensions in the context of profile?
* Should there be a map of extension id to class?
* Does extension inherit data license field?
* How do you serialize extension without knowning the type?   This will need to be explained explicitly and documented.

#### Annotation
- Should annotation inherit profile from element?
- Have we articulated all the annotation types for 3.0?    Review & Other

#### Relationship
- Is the list of relationship types we have today complete?
- Should we convey properties for conveying temporality?
- How can we express a range of dependencies?
- How can we express more general conditions?   subclass of relationship with additional semantics?
- Are there open questions from linking profile discussion?
- Do we have the relationships we need to describe services?
- Do we want to simplify relationships to one direction?   Are the semantics documented?  Look at the from (single) / to (one or many) - keep cardinality?  Do we need to remain both directions in the 1:many
- Do we have way its directional or bidirectional?
- Do One-To-Many relationships have any benefits to offset them being harder to parse as opposed to One-to-One?

#### Identity
- Is there value in separating an identity for things that represent an identity?
- Should identities be artifacts?
- How separate identity of entity from proxy?
- AI:  Sean to add in the open questions you're aware of.
- What purpose does userAgent property on Tool serve given other properties inherited from Element?
- What elements are relevent for representing identity?
- NOTE:  project, tool, product,  folded under

#### IntegrityMethod
- Do we want to have signatures as integrity methods?
- How are signatures going to be used?
- How can this model fit in with best practices on signing and verification practices?
- What is list of minimum capabilities so can include?
- How does integrity apply to element vs. collections vs. documents?
- Can integrity be applied to anything other than sequence of bytes?
- How can we be sure that references to other SPDX documents can keep integrity intact?

#### Hash
- Do we have all the hash algorithms we want
- Should hash value be string?  (should serializations supporting binary data be optimized?)
- Do we want to include interpretations in the strings in the logical model?
- What are the serialization rules ? (keeping it distinct from serialization - byte level)

#### Element
- Should we take all creation related elements and put in a separate class?   Problem to solve at logical model level - there may be a set of elements created at same time with same tool.  Concern about serialization compactness.   Seems simpler to have Creation Info.
- Should we be describing creation as an event?
- Is created data type to be made up?
- What is the precise type of sem-ver?
- For profile, if a collection has one profile, but element only applies to a base, do you put integrity on it?   Alternately element has list of multiple profile, vs. collection has multiple elements with different profiles?
- Does data license need to be constrained to CC0?
- What is the impact of element created date on determinism for reproducible builds? What are the use cases for created date?

#### Artifact
- Should this have a Created property, distinct from the creation time of the Element?
- Should we separate create time of actual file, vs creation of meta data (element) about the actual file?
- Should created by
- Created time on reproducible builds?   New SBOM for exactly same set of inputs?   What are the use cases where it is used?
- How are elements created related to contextual collection?   Creation date on collection.
- Could an SBOM be considered an Artifact?
- How do ranges of artifacts get represented?  Is is only packages?
- Do artifacts have to be "real"?   Expressing version ranges that don't yet exist?   ie.  future?
- It depends on a version ranges, but we can't tell you what it is?   PURLS, CPEs, wildcards, how handle.
- Common set of relationships between artifacts - ie. files associated to package.  Overlapping with relationships - document? handle in serialization specification?   How do we model this.  Example:  Snippet is from file becomes "contains".   Direct properties vs. handle.
-  Example if creation an SBOM that only had an annotation,  need from as well as to.

#### Snippets
- Define byte range, continue to follow W3C standard?
- Define snippet location - possibly as abstract class:  byte range, line range, W3C, etc.
- Will snippet location class be able to model W3C
- Review 2.2 Snippet to make sure not dropped.

#### File
- Review 2.2 File and make sure not dropping use cases?
- Are there any media and purpose types still missing?
- Review Software purpose list and have definitions?

#### Package
- Review 2.2 Package and make sure not dropping use cases?
- Should download location be conidered as an external reference?
- Should homepage be considered as an external reference or a property?
- Is package-file-name a relationship or a property?
- Is supplier a relationship?  (note define some new relationships)
- Is files-analyzed replaced by profiles?

Next steps:  William to create issues per model type in SPDX 3.0 model.   Encourage weighing in on the issues from others, but final conclusion to be discussed in meeting, and record explict. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_Package_Data_Exchange
