# SPDX Tech Team Minutes, February 9, 2021

## Attendees

* Sean Barnum
* William Bartholomew
* Henk Birkholz
* William Cox
* Adrian Diglio
* John Horan
* Rose Judge
* Karsten Klein
* Nisha Kumar
* Steve Lasker
* Gary O'Neall
* Jorge Rodriguez-Moreno
* Jeff Schutt
* Peter Shin
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Nishad Thalhath
* Kay Williams
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

* FOSDEM review
* Results of Doodle poll
* Core profile issues

## Notes

### Brief overview of FOSDEM - Thomas
* https://fosdem.org/2021/
* Feb. 6-7; included Software Composition dev room
* discussions about various SPDX topics, including SPDX & Yocto; ORT; some misconceptions about SPDX; others

### Results of Doodle poll for tech team call - Gary
* Plan is to keep meeting on Tuesdays, but move it one hour earlier
* keep at 90 minutes for now; may reduce to 60 minutes subsequently
* outcome: 90 minutes for next week, table the decision till later

### Core model discussions - William
* Working document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bY5FG1W-76GUpuK6kr1x9b8kVCGumaUar0zA-kA2WiY/edit?usp=sharing
* Pending issue: If not calling it a "Document", what else should it be called?
  * Some options mentioned on this call:
    * Manifest
      * Manifest is used in package managers today and are specific to that package manager.  We don't want to standardize on one manifest used by all package managers (dicussed and agreed previously)
    * SBOM Manifest (vs. SBOM Document)
    * others noted in working document linked above
  * Think that "SBOM" is more at the Package level; "Document" may be broader, contain multiple Packages, etc.
  * Sean: some concerns with using "Document" and potential for issues down the road, but willing to go with it if that's the main blocker at present
  * Based on call discussions, reduced to "Document" and "Bundle" as remaining options
  * 2 different concepts - SBOM and document/bundle/set which is a collection of items
    * SBOM element would be represented as a package (previous 3T decision)
    * Need to have an "envelope" to include one or more BOM's + potentially other information
  * Proposal for Asset to represent less structured collection of items
    * Concern on semantics for Asset - comes with implied process and meaning
  * Tentative conclusion to use Document - we can revisit later if we find issues with the term in practice
  * It would be important to create a definition and use cases for Document


* Pending issue: using a property to identify which elements are the "key" elements being described / analyzed in the Document
  * Some options:
    * describes
    * rootElement
    * focusElement
  * One view: "describes" is too confusing, b/c more than just the root element is being "described"
  * another view: as a non-native English speaker, "focusElement" is confusing
  * general interest in "rootElement", though it implies a tree
  * Another view: OK with "rootElement" as long as it is optional, or at least optional where there are not >1 packages
  * should be plural: "rootElements"
    * although, consider whether to keep the property name singular but with cardinality 1..many
  * some discomfort with having it be optional -- or else, define default to be "everything in the Document" if it is not specified
  * Example where optional makes sense - Document containing just SPDX licenses - there really isn't a tree or graph of elements being represented
  * Example where it should be required - where a supplier provides a Document containing an SBOM to a customer - it would be important to communicate the root package that is being supplied
  * Perhaps treat presence as a "SHOULD" in spec language, rather than a "MUST"? Or else "MUST" in certain scenarios?
  * May be a related issue re: rootElement within Packages, not just within Documents

* Pending issue: Making "Package" an abstract class, with a concrete subclass called "SoftwarePackage"
  * Notion of keeping this separate so that "HardwarePackage" could become a class in the future
  * Decision: Concrete (not abstract) "Package" class with a subclass called "SoftwarePackage"
* Discussion on diagrams - Sean will send William diagrams being used and William will consolidate for next meeting

* Pending issue: adjustments to ExternalDocumentReferences
  * Gary - alternative model was previously discussed
  * Discussed interaction with Linking profile
  * Discussed separate proposal in 3T group discussions
    * will forward email with this content / discussion
 * Reviewed Sean's proposal sent via email
   * Strong relationship with the linkage profile
   * Diagram will encorporate Sean's proposal
* Proposed agends for next week:
    * Briefly review converged diagram
    * Continue to work through Core Model issues document
    * Review differences from converged diagram in more depth
