# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, Nov 16, 2021

## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Mark Gisi
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew


## Agenda
XML mime type - eyes on schemas
SPDX defect meeting
Nisha - Collaboration
SPDX 3.0 model repo progress
Tech demos for inclusion
Tools and releases
Problem areas for next meeting:
Package connecting to Artifact or Contextual Collection. or both (but this is multiple inheritance)
Should Elements be signable/hashable/verifiable?
Does the Element verifiedUsing property verify the integrity of an Element or the retrieved value of an Artifact?
Some artifacts can change value, so artifact integrity doesn't make sense for them.
If verifiedUsing applies to just immutable Artifacts, then we will need a different way to describe integrity verification of immutalbe Elements.
NamespaceMap (is it a property of Collection?) needs more discuss.

##  Notes
* XML Mime type
  * Alexios willing to help Rose on review.
* SPDX Defects meetings can best be scheduled on Monday 9 PST, or Wednesday 9 PST. Thomas to prepare a doodle and sent to SPDX Defects + Tech mailinglists

* Collaborating
Sharing diagrams, mind maps - considering https://excalidraw.com/
David's last visualization was helpful.    Help understand what folks thinking about.

* SPDX 3.0 in repo
  * Community spec 1.0 has been added.
  * Alexios to reach out to Steve.    Start working on licensing profile
  * Core model can be added?   Easy to add the classes & properties.
  * Sean's descriptions have been partially included
  * Software profile - moving from 2.2 into 3.0 - package, file, snippet.

* Tech demonstrations
   * Software bill of materials output from propietary
   * Working group meeting

* SPDX tools updates
   * Java tools released
      *  mostly license list improvement (OSI & FSF more accurate)
      * JSON validation fixes,  if spot others, please add issue to repo.
      * Release available on Maven and at https://github.com/spdx/tools-java/releases/tag/v1.0.3
   * Python tools - some progress,   bringing JSON format up to same level as Java tools

* Infrastructure
   * Decision table to be reviewed.   Make it clear that 2022 vs. 2021
   * Where is William keeping track of decisions?   There is some of the 3T decisions
   * Process:  Gary to extract from weekly, but merge not happen until one of the attendees signed off
   * Misconceptions document has been updated:  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/541

* Sebastian - mkdocs - Thomas can you take a look?
   * Gary made a pull request to update MkDocs; needs review: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/584

* Kate - thoughts about 2.2.2 (there are some pull requests to incorporate)
   * new features 2.3 or 3.0
   * typos and spacing fixes ok for 2.2.2
   * create milestone & tag them.
   * Nisha willing to help fix issues (typos, etc.) - ok to tag her as well.

* David Kemp to send out serialization proposal to mailing list.


* Does anyone disagree that a package needs the semantics of an artifact
   * Package to be artifact, collection, but not multiple inheritance.
   * Nisha, Sebastian, David disagree.
   * David: Package inherits from Collection (has member Elements including Packages and Files), describes whatever a "package" entity is (may not always be a single File or multiple Files).
   * Assumption is a package is a type of artifact.
   * Artifact is an abstract class,  common behaviours across all snippet, file, package.   Can include hardware devices, and is non software specific base class.  Something that is addressable/fetch
   * Alexios: from last week, we want: (a) Package is an Artifact; (b) Package is a Collection (Contextual or not); (c) no multiple inheritance. If (c) is a hard requirement, then maybe we want to split "Package" into two notions: Package-as-Artifcat and Package-as-Collection (and decide on correct names)
   * Definition of package from SPDX 2.2: A Package refers to any unit of content that can be associated with a distribution of software.
   * Gary: based on that definition, Package is more of an Artifact than a Collection
   * Jeff:  Need to be clear about when meta data describing artifact.  I would propose we define artifact in the same way as is done with SLSA: “Artifact - any file produced as the result of a build pipeline, such as container images, language packages, compiled binaries, etc.”
      * William File is way too specific.
   * David: best to distinguish between package can download, vs. graph of package of contents.
   * Nisha: word package - does not have a clear definition anyway.

* William:  Package and description of content are different contents.
* Discussion of example - William mocked up coreutils, sources of it, built, deb & rpms.
* Online services may need to have SBOMs associated with them.
* Artifact URL - can point to something more abstract.   RB. its optional, so it may not have a URL.
* Nisha: "Artifact" is the distribution of a conceptual "package".

* Diagram has been updated (Package only inherits from Artifact and not from ContextualCollection)
* Package only gets content via CONTAINS relationships, not via class inheritance
* Jeff: Need way to reference a collection of packages
   * Kate: Wouldn't it be an SBOM?    William:  maybe just a contextual collection.   ie. here's a catalog
   * David:  Experiment with adding "Raspberry PI" and the relationship "INSTALLED-ON". The we can have a ContextualCollection of all boxes describing the setup (not a Package).

. to be continued next Tue...
