# SPDX Tech Team meeting, August 31, 2021

## Attendees

* Adrian Diglio
* Christian Long
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Shin
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholemew

## Agenda

* Attempt to close on some Identifier topics

## Notes

* GSoC
  * All students passed and did very well.
  * Sebastian - any consensus on yet another license matcher going to be merged?
    * Gary - comparing license matcher to Java tools
    * Student would also like to write it in Ruby
    * Probably be merged in the next month or so
    * Would be nice to have a Python tool! There is trouble connecting to the Java web service.
* Lots of PRs against the spec
  * Call to action to review and comment on the PRs currently open
  * PRs against the JSON schema - please review if you have expertise - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/528
  * Confusing topics on SPDX 3.0
    * Gary - will take that on
* Idenfitiers - remaining items
  * David sent out email about the identifier discussion
  * William - recap of the decisions made last week:
      * Is there agreement that an element ID is a URI or IRI - yes
      * Is there agreement that there is a namespace and a local ID - yes
      * Is the namespace a logical namespace that may resolve to a physical namespace - yes
      * Can the namespace be optimized for serialization/deserialization - yes
      * Can elements be referenced by the element ID without referencing the container - continued
        * Gary - example of checksums. Depending on serialization, the checksum may not be readily accessable without the container
     * Nisha: what is a "container"?
       * More like "scope" where "scope" is "all SPDX documents in the known universe" assuming that there is no collision of URIs or IRIs between two suppliers.
       * Sebastian would prefer not to use "scope"
       * This means the URI probably needs a timestamp on it
    * Sean - everything in the concrete subclass of an element can be accessed
    * Gary - Some serializations may require the enclosing "container"/document/collection to fully access the data
    * Nisha - Packages are in the wild where they are not globally unique
      * William - we want to be careful we are not re-opening unique ID
      * William - The Element URI refers to the data about the package
      * Sean - Globally unique, but not globally necessarily globally consistent
      * Rose - How do you know if 2 SBOM refer to the same package
        * William - Artifiact URL can be used
        * Artififact URL is not necessarily a URL - it can contain a content hash, for example
     * Rose - do 2 creator of element data use the same URI
       * Sebastion - no - they would end up with 2 URI's
  * Steve:
      * scenario where a container is being copied from location to location. It sounds like the URI will be the same for all of these containers but they are the same container.
      * William - if the content hash is the image then there can be a common pURL for all these containers
      * Sebastian - pURLs aren't actually URLs, they are URIs? William - that is true; pURLs are URIs
      * Rose - what if different containers have different hashes?
      * William - rally consensus in the docker community to recommend a canonical pURL to the spec.
      * Nisha - "docker" means different things to different people, so it may be hard to come to a consensus.
      * Steve - we can use hints to indicate the context for the pURL. Need advise on how to craft this though.
      * William - yes, how you designed a good pURL
  * William: we called it "artifact URL" not "package URL". We want a superclass of "package URL" because pURL is specific to software and we want to specifiy hardware stuff.
  * Change the name of ArtifactURL to ArtifactURI - more accurate
  * Sebastian - Elements are immutable - important to document
  * Does "Document" retain "namespace" property?
    * David: URIs have a hierarchy of ways of resolving relative IRIs, you need a base namespace and localID attached to it. The most straightforward way is the embed the namespace. Hence "document namespace" is required in order to construct the relative IDs.  OK to not have a document namespace if an element is independent.
    * Sebastian - Imagining document would disappear.  If the serialization defined how the ID's
    * Gary - Need the namespace in the logical model to be able to translate back and forth between RDF and non-RDF serialization
    * Sebastian - Proposal to use scheme and authority for namespace always
    * Gary - Concern this may be too concerning
    * David - Model still needs to have namespace
    * Is the element ID structured with a Name and Local ID or is it a full URI
    * ID is compound per the RFC, but is represented as a single string currently
    * Gary - do we agree that we don't loose information when serializing/deserializing between different formats?  (e.g. the namespace is different)
      * Agreement with possible agreement with namespace alias
      * Is the default namespace information or just convenient?
        * Gary - information and needs to be retained
    * Offline discussion with Sean, Gary, David & Sebastian - either a call or on mailing list
      * Continue discussion on the namespace property and format
        * Is there agreement on the use case/requirement to preserve namespace information between serialization formats?
        * How should we structure the namespace and local ID?
          * Each element ID has a structure of namespace + local ID
          * Each element ID is an xsd:AnyURI type (which is by definition a string and contains a compound structure) and:
                * a namespace property in each element
           * a namespace property in the document
