# SPDX Technical Team Meeting,  June 29, 2021

## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* Adrian Diglio
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jim Hutchinson
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Peter Shin
* Philippe Ombredanne
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* Steve Winslow
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Tejaswini Duggaraju
* William Cox
* Vanessa Sochat


## Agenda
* Template for specification
* Containers & SBOMs
* Plugfest Update
* GSoC update



## Notes

* Template
  * Model needs a serialization faithful to model.
  * Thomas working on serializations and examples for supporting working on specification.
  * Needs to be easy to follow,  vulnerabilities, can work off of 2.2 model.
  * Help follow discussion.
  * SPDX Vulnerability profile got mentioned in https://snyk.io/blog/advancing-sbom-standards-snyk-spdx/
  * LIcensing: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/503/files
  * Tag:Value & JSON -- examples are being illustrative
 *  Alexios created https://github.com/spdx/spec-v3-template
    * Take in existing properties and move into
    * All class information goes into core - ie. core & software
    * Core is going to be common classes,  but superset of all properties from all the profiles.
    * If there is a class that is not in core model, it goes into its owns namespace.
    * Key: want to avoid two conflicting profiles being added.
    * Making the spec simple to read.   Avoid wading through things not interested.
    * Note which properties are only used by which profiles
    * Content is simplified input for a tool; nice markdown will be generated

* Steve Lasker - OCI Artifact Registry
  * https://twitter.com/SteveLasker/status/1400587349629702144
  * How do we store other things in the registries.
  * Generalized container registries to store other types - store individual things.   But not concept to create an association between.   Key is persist as a file.   Security scan results - outptu file.
  * Reference type - manifest is a collection of blobs,   signatures can't change original artifact.   Digest of image /  tag of image - just want to add signature (via Notary v2)  - reference types can point to SBOM and signatures go into registry.
  * Available alongside target,  associated with, but separate from target artifact.  Passport Example.
  * ORAS client - push to local instance of hello world,  exmple SBOM,  refrences hello world latest.
  * refers - let me have anything that references - lets export back out.

* If replace SBOM does it update?
  * Up to users to determine.   Multiple SBOMs can be supported.
  * Tree or graph?    Graph.   Just care about about file.
  * Can have only a single reference?    Only single reverse reference.   Haven't been able to think of multiple.   Collection of one - scalable.
  * If same content,  will de-dupe it
  * Tracking of individual layers is going to be problematic.   Looking at layers is going to be an issue - keeping to artifact side.
  * Dockerhub,  storing SBOM with Artifact?   Justin Cormack & Steve Lasker working together.   Google has alternative approach they're considering.   Docker, AWS & Azure working to this soltuion.    Reference types works for cosign as well.    Kubernetes community producing SPDX SBOMs.
  * Sigstore alignment is still TBD.  References - Picks up from the registry.
  * Creation, Distribution, Consumption -- of content.    Reliably distribute with all content intact.
  * Here's how to put into registry and distribute further --> Airgap clouds.   Goals is to send SBOMs with it.
  * Validate - needs to happen in environment of supply chain integrity.
  * Sebastian - referenced but separable.   How does this increase the security?
    * We can't break existing workflow,  reference doesn't change, but is discoverable.
    * Key is making sure we don't have trojan horse scenario.
    * Windshield wiper example - need to associate, as reference but separable to manage
    * Gatekeeper - what are the criteria to let SBOMs go into the repository?   SPDX validates before it goes into the repo.
    * ie.  Ask first for SBOM,  if it passes validation,  then pull image.    Signature in SBOM associated with image, but veryify untrusted image, but verify registry doesn't send back data.
    * Digest, size, media type.
    * Ingress workflow - never depend on external source.   As part of bringing in content in, validation needs to occur.

* is oci-reg copy like what oras copy is going to be? The UI looks very similar.  https://github.com/oras-project/oras-go/pull/8
- Refernce Types & SBOM Presentation: https://github.com/SteveLasker/Presentations/blob/master/oci-artifacts/OCI-Artifact-ReferenceType-Overview.pptx
- Video: https://twitter.com/SteveLasker/status/1400587349629702144
- ORAS Experimental CLI for reference types: https://github.com/oras-project/oras/blob/reference-types/docs/artifact-manifest.md

* Plugfest Update
- link to presentation Kate showed: XXXXXXX
- Plugfest original folder: https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1Ujxp8w7dhrL6TNj5NxcaASbqPSoVTP1Y
- use cases: 1. sources (licensing); 2. build; 3. final binary
  * Is there a trivial example from NTIA Plugfests to use as an example to compare multiple serializations?

* GSoC Update
  * from Steve W. via chat:
    * for the tools-golang repo, the student working on adding JSON support has been doing a great job on parsing SPDX 2.2 JSON
    * Merged into "json" branch at https://github.com/spdx/tools-golang/tree/json and expect to merge into main branch shortly, with a new release to follow.

## Blockers
* Naming
* Format of markdown for how to arrange info.
