# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, May 11, 2021
## Attendees

* Alexios  Zavras
* Bob Martin
* William Bartholomew
* Sean Barnum
* John Horan
* Jeff Schutt
* Rose Judge
* Kate Stewart
* Kay Williams
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Winslow
* Michael Herzog
* Philip Shin
* Philippe Ombredanne
* Karsten Klein
* Adrian Dialgo

### Regrets
* Gary O'Neall - vacation away from internet


## Agenda
* GSoC Update - Alexios
* Usage Profile update - should there be a "Product" inheriting from Element or Artifact?  (follow up from Asia call)
* William will show github element example. (carry over from last week)
* Model discussion - Review Artifact, Package, File, Snippet
* Integrity Profile update - Kay (10 min at end)


## Notes

### GSoC
* 5 spots allocated to project.    Limited factor was mentoring capabilities.
  * 2 are about Golang (JSON, RDF R/W)
  * Migration of online tools to Python 3 & Django 3.   Possibly container.
  * Parse markdown and create JSON so we can create other formats
  * Improving License Matcher and matching guidelines (variable templates)

### Usage Profile
* Notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gvcU3Qgs5IH_SbVoeYLt1PSwuTgEX3RTr6CEcUQ6hXc/edit#heading=h.x8df7ykvzy8o
* Open Question:  Do we need to have Product as a class separated from Package?
* Clarify intended semantics and how is it diffent.

### Github Element Example
* Gist: https://gist.github.com/iamwillbar/76e4b0e5ba93e76177afe20a621f2566
* Physical representation, does not align with logical model, but we should be able to deserialize it into a form that is compatible with logical model.
* Left out some data for simplicity, example in JSON,  not JSON LD - may be better ways to represent.
  * profiles: "core" not claiming to fill licensing, nothing licensing related.   Future walkthrough to layer on licensing.   This is also software profiles
  * CreatedBy - logical model - always an array,  but phyiscial model doesn't have to,  so can treat as array of one entry.   Phyisical profile has to be able to deal with differences.   Physical representation is same as serialization.
  * Singular vs Plural - aligning with serialization formats.   Model is different.    Can exist, not necessarily should.
  * Createdby - not an email, but a pointer to object.
  * ID, combining,  but other serializations may force you to separate.   In example namespace is separated by # from id.
  * Example is retreiving a specific commit from a repository.
  * Default to document namespace in certain serializations.   However outside of namespace, may need to do namespace & id.   ie.  identity example.
  * Aggregating a set of of elements that we want to exchange at a point of time.
  * Added ExternalMap - for URI without URL.   Built up from Created.   Suggestion is to use URN

  * Note optimization so document level fields are assumed unless override in specific element.
  * Probably should have artifact URL - to reference github

  * We should make recommendations for how to generate ids, but up to creator.
* Multiple Relationship types
  * Different optimization to clarify.
  * Sean: relationship doesn't have time dimension, may want to consider this.   May make it hard to embed.
  * Options that allow to condense document.   Constrain what describe.
  * Kate: Linkage profile - might force different serializations.
  * Steve:  Packages contain files,   Files contain Snippets.   The assumption of contains is there.    For size of SBOM.   When 1000's of file,  then forcing a separate contains relationship for all files in a package, etc.
     * Serialization could define its possible.   Alternately the 1:many relationship in id.
     * Everything in files, consider contains.    File is an element that is standalone, and relationship between the package to the file.
     * Sean: One of the biggest risks when serializing this way,  need to include id of what is being serialized.
 * For serialization format to generate ids, may need to provide some guidance,  esp. for relationships.
     * Thomas:  Like to be able to omit IDs.    William: then no one is able to annotate.   Critical for consumers.
     * Steve - serialization specification and tooling - need to keep simple.   Channel Gary.   In package definition may have files array,  may have id.  Key is forcing folks to avoid repeating themselves.   Complexity doesn't go away, just gets shifted around.
     * William - Serialization spec will need to be very explicit to go from physical rep back to logical model.
     * Thomas - Elements is now one big array - which isn't useful.    William:  doesn't need to be.    Have files with 40K elements.   Don't care about files/relationships/etc.   ie. only show me the packages.
     *  files array --> translates to elements.  Physical representation can define.
     * Sean: this would be straightforward to do.    Serialization and specializations, focused on SBOMs vs. BOMS.
* Identity example at end.
  * Sebastian:  may be concerns for identity for GDPR requirements wit hsome of the identity.  If data became unavailable.
  * William: may need to be happen around this.
  * Sean controllers with permissions,  on identifiers.    Possibly this needs to be worked into model.

## Integrity update
* Looking for end to end attestation across supply chain.   Considering merging into intoto context.
* SLSA - Mark Ledato - Google led work, in into community.   Touches on how SPDX would fit in intoto framework.   see: https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/blob/main/presentations/2021-05-10_slsa_attestations_3t-sbom.pdf
* Early draft,  but ongoing discussion about how SPDX and other formats relate.
* SLSA,  ITE-5, ITE-6  --> uses Predicate to support SPDX 2.2,  SPDX 3.0,  CycloneDX, etc..

## Future
* Template closure - when Gary/Alexios/Kate/Sean can all attend
* Integrity update & implications on signing and validation.  (Santiago, Kay) - early May
* William - Review Artifact, Package, File, Snippet, etc.
* Core Profile - content writeup  - is it base or core?    Add in profiles as a pull request.

### Update
* See when Steve ready to hold discussion to close on Data license issue.
   * When comments and use cases added to https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/159

### Parking:  Issues to be unblocked
* Format to put examples in (Serialized examples) - how we can make compact and expand.   (Alexios document of decisions).   Are we changing class descriptions?  different information model?  what is mapping.
* How to represent spreadsheet in examples/serialization.
* Goals of SPDX - related to simplicity and use cases not brought to team.
