# SPDX Tech Team meeting,  August 24, 2021

## Attendees

* Brian Fox
* Christian Long
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* William Bartholomew

## Regrets
* Alexios, Bob

## Agenda

* Idenfier Proposals

## Notes

* Summer of Code - final evaluations due this week.   Reminder to mentors.

### Identifier Proposal Criteria Established:
* Element criteria - all element ids are URIs (which are IRIs)
* Independently uniquely referenced
* Don't require intermediate steps for an identifier in the model
* For linked data, don't need to reference directly,  for non-linked data be able to translate to fully linked.
  * non-linked to non-linked, need to be able to deserialized.
* Is "intermediate steps" in conflict with "linked and non-linked" steps
    * Sean: the difference is that "non-linked" the identifiers need to be short form for readability
    * Kate: if you are applying a prefix or not is an intermediate steps?
    * Sean: references within the serialization does not count as an intermediate step (?)
    * Henk: if you add a prefix to an id, this is a lightweight extra step, but if you are doing JSON-LD (which is like RDF in JSON), with every nested element, there is a direct ID, then it becomes very verbose. If creating smaller JSON structures at a human readable level, the IDs become (?). We have nested objects and the ID stuff goes away, and we have to reconstruct the ID from the nested structure. This is an extra step. We can have a canonical transformation but is still an extra step.
* Sebastian: splitting ID into namespace and local ID - isn't URIs a compromise?   The compount id in model, but can separate out for serializations.   Limitations on URI may have a role.   Ref. 2.2 has differences between the serializations at this point.   Escaped characters. Tools may be able to understand the regex but humans cannot. Desire to avoid separator characters and use compount ID.  Not sure want to go full IRI (character limitations and paywall)
* IRI spec is available as an RFC?   Unicode reference, paywall?
* All RDF data is IRI - subset of objects,  those identifiers are raised as a property in model, so can access to another model.   Want to be able deserialize and reserialize to get roundtrip.
* There are URIs elsewhere in document.
* Sebastian: Key focus is to go into other serializations without loosing any data.
* Sean: if its an atomic identifier it will work - it just so happens that namespace & local are parts of it.
* Sebastian:  MariaDB, etc. already support compound types, even if not in RDF.
* David:  id should be IRI - but distinction between calling it a compound or not.   Prefix and part after,  idea of hint - fragment and query are not used in linked data.
* Sean:  Do we have concensus on what is being used for hints?
  * David:  If a fragment is ignored when processing linked data,  then its available to use in serialzed data.
  * Henk:  https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-core-href-06.html#name-cbor-serialization
  * David: Is there potential for query weirdness?
  * Sean: Use something that doesn't have reserved processing for URLs.   Avoid accidental interpretations.
  * David: Use-case for hints is where people reference elements in external documents, and want to include human-readable informations without repeating the full element.
* William: Concensus check (non response is agreement/neutral)
  * Element ID is a unique URI/IRI  ( no negatives, strong support within model)
  * Element ID is a namespace with local id - (with concerns on implementation but general idea support)
   * Does not imply physical location
  * Namespace is a logical (not physical) identifier,  and May do resolution to get to the physical location
    * Sebastian: does this need to be in the spec at all?   Key is to not prevent it.
    * Perhaps backwards compatibility to known resolvers
  * Namespaces may be optimized to shortform in serialziations.   ie. in document - specified on top, not on each element.   Map to short string used in identiiers.
  * Sean: concern about not having prefixing, not for default that it inherits up.
  * Nisha:  why not use local id for reference?   Sean: its not globally unique.
  * Gary:  Base namespace is already in RDF.   Sean in UCO we removed base.   Complexitites in real work use.   Not worth the space saved,  ok with using prefix.
  * Gary:  Simlicity for consumer vs. producer.   More simple to just declare once and not have to add to every id.
  * Henk:  ID is suffixed to namespace.   Local Atomic id, means that have to express with whole subelement.  Concern about base being overloaded.   Local id, may not be experessed in serialization.   Every local element has its own id, but doen't need to be expressed atomically in serialization.
  * Logical model is always URIs,  but serializations can optimize this but there might be complexities.
  * Sean: Propose there is not one default namespace.   Kate:  That is already being handled as prefixes by external map.
  * William:  no presumption that namespace is a registry address.
  * Nisha:  unique identifer is not a WWW unique identifier (s/identifier/location? no I think it was referencing GUID) that is canonical.
  * William:  canonical should not be assumed.
  * Gary:  In 2.0 - URIs unique but not include location.   We don't want a disallow a location identifer for hints.
  * Gary:  Logical model - does it have a property called namespace?
  * Sean:  agrees makes prefixes more  useful.   Want to be able to assume multiple.
  * Gary:  should we have a default namespace?   discussion ensued.  Example of default namespace using base in the RDF syntax: https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-syntax-grammar/#section-Syntax-ID-xml-base

*  Sebastian suggests https://cryptpad.fr/code/#/2/code/edit/XQl9AsXE77Ht3VEiLt6Z6Y30/,  preference is to add this into spec itself in github for caveats for future discussion.


* Pending:   Close on IRI vs. URIs for 3.0 (keeping separate from discussion of identifiers).

## Future
* Nisha:  Serialization ExternalMap of JSON & JSON-LD
* Steve:  Configuration:  what SPDX content is recommended in specific contexts - discussion (SHAQL shapes?, policies?, profiles?)
