# SPDX Technical Weekly,  September 21, 2021

## Attendees
* Gary O'Neall
* Nisha Kumar
* John Horan
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Jeff Schutt
* Henk Birkholz
* Karsten Klein
* Peter Shin
Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Results from Docfest
* Accessibility for the specifications page
* Tagging repo - final questions
* Identifiers &  default namespace

## Notes
* Results from Docfest (note: no results publish yet)
  * We will publish results to the mailing list
  * Top takeaways:
      * Package naming best practices - left to creator of SPDX document
      * Package Download Location - download location only and to be used with package name
      * pURL is not condusive to be used with private repositories - open issue to create a URI for private repositories.
      * SPDX 2.2 has "ExternalRef" and "ExternalDocumentRef" (which can be confusing). SPDX 3.0 may be able to extend the differences.
      * Rose is working with the OCI specific pURL. Artifact location can move around and that seems to conflict with pURL's "reliably locate package artifacts".
      * 3.0 needs to clearly dileniate identity and location
      * Also, the identity of the metadata vs identity of the artifact
      * The use case of same packge but in two different locations
      * Gary: semantics for the download location in 2.2 is the location of the artifact that the creator knows about
      * Sebastian: this can also be ambiguous depending on proxies, ingresses, reroutes.
      * Future discussion topic - multiple download locations
      * Micro SBOMs and cross references - same as a component level SBOM
      * 2.2 already allows for references
* Each SBOM has its own lifecycle management
* Higher level SBOM can link to the component level SBOM but need to be able to link to the right versions
* Need tools to stitch together the micro SBOMs and to update the "meta" SBOM
* Need context around logistics and security concerns i.e. how to share outside an org.
* Gary: in 2.2 you can convert it into a graph. Each document has its own unique namespace. You can create a new document with its own namespace and convert it over, or convert the external document reference.
But what is the best practice. Metadata is going to be unique. What does it mean to flatten it out?
* Sebastian: should we bother to do the flattening for 2.2 if 3.0 is going to be out soon?
* Gary says this would be easy
* Concluded license:
* There was confusion between "effective" and "concluded" - whomever creates the document will enter what the "concluded" license is.
* Jilayne says no changes are needed.
* Gary: a tool can put in a conclusion if it is intellegent enough, but expect them to enter it as NOASSERTION and some value if there is a human involved. The tech team defers licenses discussions to the legal team.
* Sebastian: topic list for the legal team is overstretched. The mailing list is a better option.
* Peter: SPDX license list has guidance on how to match it. Tool using NLP may be able to make an intellegent decision and enter a "concluded" license.
* Gary: the LICENSE file is the "declared" license.
* Eg: if you have a manual review of two licenses and concludes that it is an OR and that conclusion gets stored in the database, and the next time around the tool pulls that conclusion from the database. In that case the tool puts the conclusion in.
* Files analyzed
* Eg: tern cannot tell what files came with what packages when not analyzed
* Proposal: partial file analyzed vs. complete file analysis
* Different package verification codes for the same packages
* Especially true for go modules because the SPDX-sbom-generator tool ignores the .gitignore files
* Gary to investigate why the differences exists
* Kate said SPDX 3.0 may revisit "files analyzed" flag or introduce a "partially analyzed" flag.
* Gary: the verification code algorithm was meant to verify integrity of the packages. We did need verification code for the source files. If yes, then what can we use? Maybe some security folks can provide input to this question. Will tee it up for 3.0.
* Sebastian: What files came from which package - don't package managers (e.g. `rpm -qf`) tell you that?
* Rose/Nisha: yes it will tell you file names but not the actual files in the container image. Tern will calculate hashes for each of the files in each layer, but it uses SHA-256 and SPDX's package verification code algorithm wants SHA-1

* ExternalMap
* Sean:
* The intent of the example is to show what it looks like in the serialization form
* Some are elements defined elsewhere
* There could be multiple namespaces
* Also describes how hints can be use
* This example has been around for a while since 3T
* External map showing that you have an entry for each id
* Document with content within it -- this illustrates that this externalMap could be used with external content as well
* externalID - if all documents tied to a different namespace would point to another document using map
* If it's creator is not overwritten locally in the document, assume it's the same as above - helps shorten the serialization in a deterministic way. If it's not defined in the element but defined in the document, you would use the document context but you can overwrite a document creator in a locally defined element inside of a document.
*  Do we need a default base IRI to base namespace for a document - any anytime there is not a base listed we assume the default?
* Prefix map is a fairly simple structure for xml and json. Whoever processes it would create the prefix map with serialization
* Sean: Is there still disconnect with the ExternalMap structure? David has none;  Notes that fugaziExtDoc (@id) should be an external element. Sean: This is designed to be a bit by bit copy of the reference. Gary: you can make a copy, but in order to do this you make a new element and copy all the fields over with a relationship that says copied from an external document - not allowed to duplicate information. Done this to prevent a number of failure mode scenarios where copying gets messed up or intentional to disguise vulnerability.
* Oftentimes this object (fugaziExtDoc:cluser-autoscaler) was defined somewhere else and this was the local copy -- If i have a graph of where these objects were published from, I'm no longer handwriting a copy I can pull the object and stick it in . The more the ecosystem becomes fully linked the easier the copying/linking/verifying gets.
* Nisha: Concern that the override will shift away from actually pointing to the upstream projects if we are using overrides for open source projects.
* Sean: overrides means the context metadata property for a given element (spec version, license info, creator, when created, spec version, etc). If you have 1000 elements, duplicating the same spec version of created by, etc is overly verbose. We are talking about presuming the same properties from the documnt applies to all elements
*Nisha: how is that different from just writing the time the artifact was created and saying so? Example: if you take the mini-sbom concept that we discussed in docfest, if you were to create an sbom that was referring to cluster-autoscaler software component, that artifact would have a timestamp as would the sbom; Sean: if there are 100 elements, 50 of them are definied at the same time as the local document and 50 external; only the 50 external would have a created time on them the rest would inherit.
*Nisha: ExternalMap is supposed to replace ExternalDocumentRef - why do we need to have all of these properties just to reference an external document which will have all this info? William: we are looking at elements right now
* David: createdBy and created belong in ExternalMap as "copied properties"; doesn't exist under element at all -- achieves Sean's use case without creating a new derived graph element i.e. doesn't change the graph at all just moves the other attributes up to ExternalMap. Sean disagrees.
* Sean: Fundamentally important that collection be a list of elements and all elements be in that list. David: calling that ExternalMap which also container internal elements from the referenced doc. If you want to include ExternalElements integrtity information that is fine too as long as you know that your base namespace is External or Internal.
* Sebastian: why don't we use URI? Sean: because the user would have go look at the external document.
* William: element does not have to be copied in to the document
* Sebastian: if you are referring an external element why do you not just include created by info which would indicate that the document was created by someone else.
* Sean: what is the value of external map if we added element URL to any vgiven element vs external reference to where you could go get it. The only difference in external map is whether the id namespace for any given object is the same as the base one. Doesn't see any semantic meaning. Maybe we add a couple properties to elements instead (?) but then it's just a list of elements.
* Gary: do we want to get closure or brainstorm issues to reopen.
* Sebastian: if we are defining a model of information that works with a graph then there's no reason to say somethings are local or some things are external. Sean and Gary agree. Sean: If we hold that to be true then we don't need external map.
* Nisha: Concern - at the beginning of this example there is a key value pair list. Personally has not seen key value work well with object models unless you have a map class. Brought this up in mailing list and was not answered. I wonder if what we are doing over here is creating a new object class which is a map.
Sean: benefit is replacing the reference with the actual thing, Nisha: this makes sense
* Gary: let's start with a use case when we make proposals to give us context. Today we were talking about the flattening use case

* Accessibility (Sebastian):
    * Sharing screen to show SPDX spec mkdocs page
    * Contrast with the sidebar is very low so you can't read the different categories.
    * Someone requested an expedited fix for this because it's hard to read.
    * Minimum contract for background and foreground colors by AAA - proposal to make the darker blue instead of lighter blue
    * Thomas, the original implementor, says SHIP IT!
