# SPDX Tech Meeting,  March 9, 2021

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* Brian Fox
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Jorge Rodriguez-Moreno
* Rose Judge
* Sean Barnum
* William Cox
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Kate Stewart
* Gary O'Neall
* Kay Williams
* Adrian Diglio
* Peter Shin
* Karsten Klein
* David Kemp

## Agenda
* Review of definitions from work between 3T & SPDX - Kay
* Vulnerabilities/Defects - Thomas

## Notes
### Definition
  * https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jXMQfWRi_zJX-4vX7v_fdFO3RdaTqiHd/view?usp=sharing
  * Review approach - looking at Element.
  * Way to work?   When move from word document to google docs to github.
     * Numbering of things is problematic.   Multilevel lists.   Markdown editor.
     * Moving things around and ordering needs to be considered.
     * Wondering if it work in OWL / Protege - under investigation.
     * Subclass and status - not sure where to break out to separate tables.
     * Writing detailed descriptions for elements.
     * Format should be optional, if there isn't any, leave it off.   xsd:string is corrrect.
     * Having fields to be used in multiple places will be useful.
     * Suggest that subclass of be broken out from property meta-data.
     * Constraint of properties of field on different class, min count, max count, makes sense.
     * Proposing a new 1.4 and section on every class, with properties/shape.
     * Gary looking for input from William, before making changes.
     * Template dicussion - possible 3 starting points,  Williams',  Kay' & Gary's template one.

     * Gary: Definitions comment - lot of them already done in SPDX, but not using same name.   Element is same as SPDX Element.   RDF OWL has abstract classes, but SPDX specification doesn't.   Gives starting points to do the mappings.  "An SpdxElement is any thing described in SPDX, either a document or an SpdxItem. SpdxElements can be related to other SpdxElements."
     * Sean: Element not talk about subclasses.   Base class.  How do we compare, and consider both sides.
     * We don't want ignore some of the work in past.
     * General agree keep both definitions, and moving it forward.

     * Gary to move names into attribute table
     * Sean is going to propose into template: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h-7LlkVNR37hp-qt8iC2mH_XF-lxMPgPofKgzESjLig/edit?usp=sharing
     * Gary to bring in SPDX definitions to document
     * Template may need better descriptions?

### Vulnerabilities/Defects - Thomas

* Defect document
    * Rating by/rated - possibly consider higher level.  Flip around.
    * Date/Time group should be associated with this.   At time.
    * Curation of time of SBOM generated.
    * Week between security flag & SBOM distribution.   How handle.   For ORT, the provenance information keeps when a tool is run.
    * Ability to look up CPE number.

* Need to standardize on name.    Defects vs. Vulnerabilities.   Class Defects,  subsection has its own key as identifier.
    * Sean:  suggests consider CVRF format - community talking about this as well. http://docs.oasis-open.org/csaf/csaf-cvrf/v1.2/csaf-cvrf-v1.2.html
    * Want to be able to assert that something is not affected.  Defect response.
    * Main change --> looking at using relationships being used more.
    * Does vulnerability have impact and action.   Looking at this as resolutions in ORT.
    * CVEID - from element ID?   Considering.

* Karsten:  Defects - superset of vulnerabilities.   Profile name preference to be Defects.
    * Should identify types of defects under defects profile.
    * Vulnerability be a subclass of defects.

* **Open question**:  representing serialziation formats.    Possibly using types.   Makes it easy to serialize/deserialsize.

Next time - work on model updates.  Confirm with William.
