# SPDX Tech Team,  September 7,2021

## Attendees

* Adrian Diglio
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schut
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Nisha Kumar
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda
* Identities continued

## Notes
* 3 different options consider.
  * 1 - Namespace property in model permits serializations to shorten it, and have default values
  * 2 - Single string, but define part of URI which is local, and rest is namespace.   Everything after final / is local part
  * 3 - Model represents ids as a compound property (local & namespace) - which lets it be serialized into full URI string.

*  2 - some concern about how URIs are formed may cause problems in other ecosystems.   Need to confirm this is an issue from Shaun's perspective.
* Uniqueness of URIs - see section 2.5 in specification.    Has recommendations on how to make URIs.   Determining if it unique just by namespace itself.    What will be the best practices to determine that something is unique.
* If you're copying it, should the description be unique or not?
  * Same person could create two elements referring to one file on different dates - it must have distinct IDs

* Discussion on uniqueness of ID's
  * Element ID's are unique and refer to the SPDX properties about an artifact
  * Artifact URL/URI refer to the unique artifact
  * Multiple Element's can be defined to reference the same Artifact - would have different Element ID's but the same Artifact URL/URI
  *  William would also add that Elements are immutable and if an element changes that is a new Element with a new Element ID

* Which is easiest to implement?
   * Gary has found that option 1 works best in practice,  but using linked data with standards for URI automatically created.   So libraries are taking care of this for you.    (for example:  https://jena.apache.org/)
   * David - 1 and 3 are conceptually equivalent.
   * Sebastian - number 2 makes the namespace/local part implicit in the URIs, thus extending the RFC just for SPDX. It requires more processing than simple string operations though.
  * Kate - 1 lets you refer to the document, and elements outside the document.
  * Sebastian - Optional contextual collection of elements for a document?   Gary prefer Document rather than contextual collection.
  * Gary - we shouldn't tie document to specifical serialization,  it should be more a logical concept.   We need to be able to validate the integrety of an SBOM.   The term document leads people to assume to a serializaton
  * William - Just a reminder that documents ARE elements, so they will have an Element ID just like any other element. In the spec we could put constraints on the Element ID on Document elements.
* David Kemp presented slides: (Slide 3: "Logical / Class Model")  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1v62mftkzWvH8WwdQgtJwWM6FovHoS2VRTWkZxjbaG00/edit#slide=id.gee48837964_0_0

* Sebastian :  visual examples:   https://gist.github.com/seabass-labrax/b05cafa72cecae661fc0067d3a0d242d

* Nisha:  Do we want to optimize for single element or collection?    Cloud native is in the middle.
   * Database vs. REST API.
     * Database has well defined schema - so can table join.
     * REST API have unstructured data, so have to query, receive JSON blob payload.  May contain all the info or links to all the elements.

* William:  Github elements point in times, being generated constantly, then collecting them into other things later.
   * Need to differentiate between Physical vs. Logical model.

* David writes Sebastian shows a serialized J JSON
id: {
   local: A
   namespace: B
}
where namespace can be omitted, but there are still tags for  id and local.

This is semantically identical to option 1 where JSON just has id: "namespace" "local" without the separate tags.

namespace can be omitted in either case.  In option 1 it's just omitted by stripping off the beginning of the string.

* William: Given logical model how do you enable round tripping  (which is one of the concern).   Elements can stand alone, but how do we enable roundtripping.    Logical Element has to have fully qualified id.
Gary:  When recieve element, can't loose the namespace defined for the entire collection.

* David: if Document is now "bundle of unrelated elements", the model should show namespace as a property of ContextualCollection and NOT a property of Document (since there is no context for unrelated elments)
  * William agrees from a logical model perspective, a physical model may put namespace on Document to optimize the size of the file if most of the elements contained in the document have the same namespace

* William:  What if elements always had full ids (in the logical models) but collections (Document and ContextualCollection) have a property to capture the defaultNamespace of elements it contains
  * Gary: Have namespace property in logical model.   Must be shared across all the information models.
