# SPDX Tech Team Meeting,   August 10, 2021

## Attendees

* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neill
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Peter Shin
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* Steve Winslow
* Thomas Steenbergen


## Agenda

GSoC
NTIA Update
ISO
License Model Discussion
Licensing of Repository for Specification

## Notes

* SPDX 3.14 License List published on  August 8th.

### License Model Discussions,   aligning
* Model for the license lists - change names of some classes to make clearer.

### Google Summer of Code
* SPDX Online Tool update GSOC project moving along nicely (Python 2 -> Python 3)
  * SPDX Asia Meeting; participants having trouble with existing online tools
  * Python 3 upgrade is complete; ready to be merged. Extra features currently being implemented
* License matching project (YALM)
  * Update on the General Meeting; presentation given
  * Testing and packaging to get the license matcher finalised
* JSON Golang tools
  * Parsing features are complete
  * Saving to JSON feature nearly complete
  * Focusing on documentation now
* Specification conversion
  * Presentation on the software at the General Meeting
  * Generating RDF is possible
  * Looking for volunteers working with tools,   integrating to CI,  conversitions automatic.
  * CI is to automatically convert simplified specification to full Markdown on push

### NTIA update
  * Formats and tooling working group is finishing Supplier and Consumer playbooks. Documents are open to review to anyone interested.
  * Last chance to comment; probably published this Friday
  * Allan Friedman moving from NTIA to CISA (DHS); continuing to focus on Software Bill of Materials.
  * NTIA programmes will still continue; more focus on application (tooling etc)
  * Proof of concept development may continue in the NTIA. More information likely to be available in September.
  * Energy and Automotive space are starting to produce proof-of-concepts similar to Healthcare sector
  * Lots of interest in continuing Plugfests (SPDX is running 'Docfests' as an SPDX-specific event in the same format)

### ISO update
* Currently at 60.00, waiting for 60.60 on site.
* Likely to have published SPDX 2.2 specification as ISO/IEC 5962 by the middle of the month
* ISO submission will need to be done anew for each future revison of SPDX

### Interoperability
* Completeness of SPDX 3.0 compared to CycloneDX ?
  * Thomas - SPDX supports more use cases than CycloneDX today.  CycloneDX doesn't handle relationships effectively.  Its a simplified version.   Lose info on the round trip.
  * Base level info, you should be able to round trip.    Will be a long time work end to end.
  * Gary - working on translations between into the two formats,  CycloneDX is underspecified.  Would like to leverage Thomas' code.    Enumeration values - dependencies without definitions.  Written anywhere?  Mailing list?
  * Unsupported package manager use case - add definition file, to find missing data in SPDX.   For C & C++,   read it in.   For SPDX 3.0 policy engine,  run through engine, and verify if matches contract.   Round trip incompatible.
  * Looking for input to make conversions easier.

### Docfest
* 18 people have already registered as of this meeting
* To indicate interest to participate in Docfest, please fill in the following form:
https://forms.gle/gEfBZfaNmPXUJ6Xg7
* Thomas working towards Apps examples - will be released later.
    * Will send subsequent email when its public, as an optional target.

### Vulnerability model
* Thomas - open to suggestions for meeting times
* Kate would prefer Friday 10:00 US Eastern Time, 16:00 Germany, 14:00 UTC,  but too early for west coast.   so 12 noon was concensus to try for.
* Thomas will schedule meeting for the 20th; will notify Tech Team mailing list.   Defects & General mailing list as well.
* CSAF sync still pending.

### Model for representing Licenses and Expressions
* Updates to the model for better reflecting license use-cases
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_9jkthfa5Pjpqb62gV-8WGplANQ7MD-V9Y64KOTFZ3c/edit
* Minutes of license model discussion are available in GitHub from October 2020
* Going from 2.2 to 3.0; hoping to simplify model as relating to license expressions
* 2.2 can not support multiple license exceptions and does not support custom license exceptions
* Will add NOASSERTION option for licenses
* Will be promoting certain properties from the License List only to allow custom use in SPDX documents
* Steve Winslow will appreciate comments and suggestions about the changes
* Thomas - is there a copyright model? Steve - current model just for specifying which license applies to artifacts. Copyrights and associated notes will most likely be seperate.  Relationship between copyrights and licenses discussed in 2020; further ideas appreciated.   Steve and  Thomas to have a brainstorming, and then figure out a path, that can be added.   After the repo is updated.
* Sebastian - changing of licensing, copyright -  need to be at a point in time.
* License expression model - looking for specific input.   Thomas is seeing need for context of license.    User scenarios,  avoiding custom template maker.
* Sebastian:  Ability to add multiple exceptions will be in 3.0?   Steve - yes.   Multiple in practice.
* Gary - Different ways of expressing the syntax: BSD-2-Clause WITH Exception1 WITH Exception2, or would it be BSD-2-clause WITH (Exception1 AND Exception2)
* Steve - would generally prefer to use OR if possible, as AND implies legal obligation to comply with all exceptions simultaneously
* Intending to use simple syntax if possible; trying to not break compability with license expressions found in source code (SPDX-LicenseIdentifier, REUSE etc)
* Some concensus forming that  for multiple exceptions, need to have parenthesis.   ie.  WITH ( except1 AND/OR except 2)...    Should be ok for model,  but want to make sure tooling.
* In last week's meeting, it was brought up that ability to reference license as an element might be useful
Note:  Identifier for a license,  want to be able to refernce from external document.   Element vs. License identifiers,  unify or not.   One proposal - license are going to be treated as elements.    How we connect.
* Listed licenses have pre-defined URIs,  so that linked data can understand.
* Sebastian has some use cases - will share on mailing list before.
* Steve likes concept of licenses being addressible further,  prefix.   Would like to see retention of LicenseRef-prefix.  This relates to labeling of elements.
* Can license expressions be applied to artifacts, collections, BOMs?  Yes.

### License for Specification
* Sebastian looking for Community specification license, but CC-BY-4.0 is common.    Is it possible dual license?
* Steve - trying to align Community specs with governance.   Proposal to use community specs license.   Dual license may end up overly confusing.   Are there rights they'd get under CC that is not available in CSL?
* Frameworks around CC are very mature,  ie. can be integrated into GPL code.  Publish as can done.  Approved licenses are in place most have CC.  Not need to engage legal team, for Dual License.    Avoiding license proliferation.
* Should address Community Specification in Q&A


Next Meeting
Document Level properties - how do we represent.
Separator Discussion (IdString type) - need Sean/William/Gary/David/Alexios/Kate
Label Discussion
Serializations: Compatibility with W3C "Linked Data" endpoints and cloud native REST API/JSON payload design - Nisha
