#SPDX Technical Team Meeting, June 22, 2021

## Attendees
* Sebastian Crane
* Alexios Zavras
* John Horan
* David Kemp
* David Edelsohn
* Adrian Diglio
* Nisha Kumar
* Maximilian Huber
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Cox
* Karsten Klein

### Regrets
* Gary
* Kate (missing first hour due to NTIA Plugfest)
* Thomas (?? NTIA Plugfest)
* Philippe (??NTIA Plugfest)
* Steve W (??NTIA Plugfest)

Notes

- idea for micro-SBOMs, in order to reduce size of overall single
- separate per component, composable into a larger one
- discussing ExternalMap
- we have to work on serializations in parallel
- Thomas: should we have smaller work teams working on each serialization?
-- all in favor
-- Sebastian: discussion on mailing list / github
-- David: list of resources needed
- Thomas: can ExternalMap / External document references cascade?
- Thomas: should SPDX as a spec endorse certain tools?
- Kate: breaking news from plugfest
-- interest in interoperability (not bake-off, which is about best practices)
-- 3 categories: pre-build (looking at sources), while building, after (starting from binary)
https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1Ujxp8w7dhrL6TNj5NxcaASbqPSoVTP1Y
- SBOM Plugfest analysis tools: https://github.com/ralphie79/sbom-tools
- Max: I've also written SPDX analysis tool: https://github.com/maxhbr/yacp/ <- stil lacking documentation
- SPDX IRC channel on libera.chat


## Agenda for next time
* Identity modeling - Alexios, Sean, William
* Reference container interaction - confirm Steve Lasker ok?,  need Nisha

## Notes
