# SPDX Technical Team Meeting, July 27, 2021

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Matthew Crawford
* Mattt Zmuda (Github)
* Maximilian Huber
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Shin
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Winslow
* William Bartholomew
* Zach Hill


## Agenda
* Master model diagram - how to track (William) ?
* Template status (Alexios, Nirmal) - readiness?
* AI:  File Types - take a pass at split and document in what is in each type.  (William)
* Remaining elements on the model (William) ?

## Notes
* Mattt recently landed a PR to spdx-sbom-generator adding Swift support: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-sbom-generator/pull/217

* Master Model Diagram
   * DrawIO is awkward to work with.
   * Key is to one place we can get master
   * PlantUML & Graphviz - being brought up as alternatives.
   * Merging of graphical diagrams
   * Github renders plantUML.   May solve merging problem
   * Versioning on layers of vector is issue.   Not sure worth switching.
   * Concern is graphviz doesn't control spaciality.
   * William willing to put drawio and .pdf and .png up on github after each edit.  see: Add model PR: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/80/files

* Template status
  * Able to work interactively on this now.   How to start?
  * Create spec version 3.0 under community specification license.
  * David considers Shape section more appropriate in table format,  Alexios wants to keep it simple.  Concern over the cognative.   Limited participants.     Easier to parse for tools.    Key is all the data defined.
  * Final rendering in specification,  will be as a table.
  * Classes & Properties reviewed.    Alexios offered to give 1:1 with Steve.
  * Sebastian: Noticed on poperties upper cases,  beyond camel case?   Not intentional?   Metadata of property is not case specific.    Properties/Shape/ ...
  * Henk brought up description:   idstring vs. xsd:string

* File Types
  * Proposal discussed
  * Kate wanted to see EXECUTABLE type - example is kernel module.
  * Karsten want to see real life examples tied to each types.
  * Definition and one example - is recommendenation for each of the defined types
  * Example to think about - source JARs,  mixing dimensions.
  * Should we remove "ARCHIVE".     What are the semantics of the contents.
  * Source is all MIT licensed, but docs are under different licensed.  Useful too know distinction.
  * Are types just categorization of Elements?   Software specific, so keep if in relm.
  * PackageType,  Licensing, ....
  * Alexios hasn't found effective use for types
  * Category on Artifact Software level?
  * ContentType - this aligns with   https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml
  * FileType --> FilePurpose, SoftwarePackageType --> SoftwarePackagePurpose
     both --> SoftwarePurpose
  * need for SoftwareArtifact? probably not (yet)
  * AI:   Mappings between 2.2 --> 3.0 needs to be done.
  * Vocabulary vs. Enum vs. ....    How distinguish: the vacabularies have names like Classes (PascalCase) but all end in "Vocab"

## Next Meeting
* Document Namespace & elements - working through use case proposed by Gary
* Update on Security Profile (Thomas) ?
* Revisit ExternalMap/SPDX 3.0's equivalent for "ExternalDocumentReference"?
