
# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, April 13, 2021

## Attendees
* Sean Barnum
* Henk Birkholz
* William Cox
* Brian Fox
* John Horan
* Nisha Kumar
* Bob Martin
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schutt
* Peter Shin
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Kate Stewart
* Kay Williams
* Steve Winslow
* Alexios Zavras
* Rose Judge
* Jim Hutchinson
* Karsten Klein
* Dave Kemp
* Maximillian Huber
* Steve Lasker

### Regrets
* William Bartholomew (vacation)

## Agenda
* GSoC Update (Gary, Alexios)
* Japan Update (Kate)
* Review Template fields to use (from Licensing example) (Steve, Gary, Sean)
* Common Understanding of Terms -  Model, Profile, Extension, and Namespace. (Alexios)
* NTIA SBOM Plugfest (Kate, Gary)

## Notes

### GSoC Update
11 proposals -- 2 hours to go
slot request on May 3rd ,  start working on June 7th.

### Japan Update
 * Looking for guidance on template to use, and how to indicate profiles

### Template - building up concensus

* Draft PR under review - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/6538fec4cbdbe738d01df88387c92228be051eab/chapters/profile-licensing.md
*  Format in current spec not captured by regex - added a line for semantic meaning.
  *  Gary: Suggest moving it in to description.    Steve is ok with this.
*  Data type - should be consistent in document, in the object model, the data type is a license, but we've serialized it as a string.    Don't have anything serialization specific in the data type.
  * Format description would go into description.   Optional.  If you've got it, you can have it.
* Thomas:  Would like to fold summary into the metadata table.    Would like to see complete example of profile at top, and then go into the details.
  * Steve: likes this for context setting.   Do you mean complete document for profile?
  * Thomas: uses "...", for rest, and then go into the relevant fields.   For vulnerabilities, there is a header.
  * Sean: Likes concept of aggregate example,  see that its consistent across all the profiles.
  * Thomas:  using JSON for right now as example, and we can convert after the discussion.
  * Gary:  we have JSON and JSON LD.   Looking to see it as a simple JSON for the examples.
  * Sean: is fine with this.   Can hide the LD'ness.    For structure, property has a class type.   Specify type of object.  Will let you do all the stuff the LD can do.
  * Thomas:  Examples on top, are purely to convey the message.    Example directory is to full examples.
  * Sean: Having types on structure yields many benefits.
  * Gary: Would like to see this as well.
  * Nisha:  Isn't subclass of expressing the same thing as type?    Why not just use "type", rather than subclass.
  * Sean: In serialization, file object, package object, etc.   How know what the structure is.    Informative examples rather than normative.  ie. "..." and here's the important part.    Type property in serialization to type.
  * Gary: Some properties allow for multiple types.  Its useful to know what the concrete type is.  Will make the tooling easier.   Type field in examples will be helpful.
  * Steve:   Examples per format embedded?   Kate emphatic yes
  * Gary:  Want to have Leading Examples - N.1 so tooling can parse it out.
  * Thomas:  Got rid of all the numbering and then will work it at end.
* Kay: Suggests breaking it into separate files - Profiles, Classes, Properties - and then upper layer to  organize.
  * Gary:  Suggest "subproperty of", should be treated as optional.     Example of "name" - if you know its the same property of the superclass, but the name is different.
  * Gary:  status field: stable if not changed, New & different - is "unstable" for 3.0;    "deprecated" if the field is deprecated.
  * Steve:  Example:  DeclaredLicense has amalgamated - so "unstable."   Concluded license is "stable".
  * Steve:  License and LIcense expression should be add to Licensing profile.  Gary volunteered to help Steve with this aspect.
  * Gary:  subclass - when we're making a change to a class in base profile,  just key it off the name.   Alternative, stating its defined in the base class (hyper link in document).
  * Nisha:  subclass vs. subproperty?
    * Gary: Subproperty is useful for semantic reasoning in RDF;  says that a property being described is more specific.   Example is PackageName has same semantics as Name.   So Package is a subproperty of Name.   Subclass is a specialization of the superclass, so can override fields.
* Gary:  How to treat changes in classes defined elsewhere.
  * Sean:  Working on pulling together the suggestions have.   Subclasses can change constraints, similarly can narrow the constraint.   Cardinality (optional -> mandatory) can be handled this way as well.
  * Thomas:  Trying to make it easy to understand for humans...  pending "profile identifier",  field with another artifact.
  * Nisha:  Has examples, and want to be able to discuss with others.
  * Gary: Put in what you have and lets knock them out.    ie. profile
* Kate:  Like to see breakdown of documents to discrete portions that then get assembled - like to understands kay's approach.
  * Kay: Shared this folder structure for discussion: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1T8PHV3QGr_XagpijZHsxHUCRAUbqYlVn?usp=sharing
    * Kay:  Profile describes classes and properties that are part of profile.
  * Nisha: Sent email for top level diagram - visualize what document would look.   SPDX 3.0;  we are using some kind;
     * Kate: Some model classes won't be able to be entered
     * Sean: Agrees
  * Sean:  Namespace - classes and properties in namespace.   Metadata for the namespace.   Identifier & description.   Don't need to go to file structure.   Order listing of classes may link to other pieces.
    * Kate: We are going to need to be able to assemble into specification.
    * Gary: We should be able to use automation to connect the pieces together.
    * Steve:  Likes the idea of split,  Nisha likes;
    * Thomas: prefers a single file.   People want single link.
    * Kay: don't want to worry about ordering and numbering of classes.  Separate files, that creates full document, and share with others.
    * Alexios:  more independant, more standalone, ok for single document.   When you start discussing how things impacting other namespaces.

### NTIA SBOM Plugfest on 4/9
* Folder - https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1zIqD2kPevZhDQcnJjaYLBccUm1dIz3Pw
* Notes - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LfeTAKSalSc5Wx2tQ3nf_9U6UCsxXh3eDLdmr4ZdNQM/edit#
* Spec issue - Facts vs Hints (ie. dependency version)
* SPDX 2.2 Schema analysis - https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1t7QmmhTdC0QAdMndjbWNVbbSpaewVfCl3kJ-FcvryuY/edit#slide=id.gcf1479397c_0_467 - good for models looking at.
* Thomas:  Others pick up some data, and not pick up.   Cookbook for 3.0 is going to be essential.   3 car manufacturers going to pick up SPDX 3.0.
* AI:  Steve Lasker willing to help identify a hello world of "container" space, to include in next plugfest.

## Future Agenda Topics
* Integrity update & implications on signing and validation.
* FSFE - having profile that relates to the orginator of code,  pull in legal.   FSFE - structuring of metadata,  manual use of SPDX standard.    Invite - ( Steve, ReUSE folks )
* Core Profile - content writeup
* Usage Profile - content write up


### Parking:  Issues to be unblocked
* Identity modeling
* Format to put examples in (Serialized examples) - how we can make compact and expand.
* How to represent spreadsheet in examples/serialization.
* Common Understanding of Terms
  * Model -
  * Profile -
  * Extension-
  * Namespace -
