# SPDX Technical Team Meeting, June 8, 2021

## Attendees

* Alex Goodman
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Maximillian Huber
* Nirmal Suthar
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Shin
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Regrets

* Kate Stewart

## Agenda
* NTIA Plugfest
* Alexios -  Template next steps
* Sean - Proposal to improve Identity class

## Notes

### NTIA Plugfest
* See https://docs.google.com/document/d/1USn3XJ25d6l8nMqBTnsqoovJIW36KupODiqvo8ZpqPo/edit#
* Everyone is encouraged to join
* Must either produce or consume SBOM to participate
* Discussed REUSE project if it would quality
 * Follow-up to see if the REUSE output meets the minimum viable SBOM as specified by the NTIA.  If so, then it could/should participate

### Template Next Steps
* Need to reach agreement on nomenclature for SPDX version 3
 * Area(s) of Interest
  * Different from profile - example - licensing
 * Model
  * Classes
  * Properties (Fields)
 * Profile
  * Specific requirements
  * Typically aligns with areas of interest
  * Shape - conditions, restrictions
* Input to be "Simplified Markdown"
  * Input is for being processed
  * Everything will be generated (including pretty markdown)
* Will provide examples - within the next couple weeks
* Also, will provide formal grammar - after being done
* For example - removing the table formatting
* Desire to simplify
  * Sean made the point that we don't want to oversimplify to the point where we loose coherent messaging
  * Removing the numbering makes it difficult to cross-reference
    * Latex format supports cross referencing, but may be too radical - general agreement Latex is too radical a change
    * For properties, try to stick to the formal name - e.g. what's defined in XSD
    * Need to be parseable
    * Taking a more iterative approach: define template  for current data, when we encounter new content that generates problems we tackle it then
* Proposal to separate Model and Profiles in separate directories
  * One file per class for the model
  * Namespaces - do we need separate folders per namespace?
  * Properties - one file for all properties within a namespace
  * One file per profile
* PascalCase for Class
* camelCase for properties
* Do we need namespaces
  * General agreement yes -- for anything being added not in core
* Next step Alexios will present examples
* Alexios will create a separate repo with the templates and examples
* Which license should we use for the new template repo license - CC0

### Proposal for Identity Class improvement
* Proposal to introduce an abstract Agent class with Identity and Artifact as subclasses
* Tool is moved from a subclass of Identity to a subclass fo Agent
* Allows more flexibility for createdBy - e.g. createdBy can point to an Artifact within the same model
* Nisha - How is this different from Attestations?
* William - example using Account for Github
* Long discussion on different use cases and how the different elements relate
* Relationships allow for different connections between things like Person and Tool
* Nisha raised the semantics for Artifact
  * William - any material is an artifact


### Future Topics
* Reference container interaction (Steve Lasker on June 15th)
* Format to put examples in (Serialized examples) - how we can make compact and expand.   (Alexios document of decisions).   Are we changing class descriptions?  different information model?  what is mapping.
* How to represent spreadsheet in examples/serialization.
* Goals of SPDX - related to simplicity and use cases not brought to team.

* Topics from last meeting we did not get to:
  * William - Hashing algorithms - required/optional; SHA1 -> SHA256; MD*
  * William - Review properties of Artifact, Package, File, Snippet
  * Alex Goodman - Tool demo: early support for SPDX 2.2 in Syft (tag-value + json)
  * Linkage example - Sean and Nisha will setup a call later - may not need a discussion within the group

Request to discuss the new repository license (related to governance topic) - perhaps Steve could discuss?
