# SPDX Tech Team Meeting,   August 3, 2021

## Attendees

* Adrian Diglio
* Alexios Zavras
* Bob Martin
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neill
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Kate Stewart
* Marc-Etttienne Vargenau
* Matt Rutkowski
* Nisha Kumar
* Sean Barnum
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Winslow
* William Bartholomew


## Agenda
* DocFest
* GSoC Update
* Document Namespace & elements - working through use case proposed by Gary
* Update on Security Profile (Thomas) ?
* Revisit ExternalMap/SPDX 3.0's equivalent for "ExternalDocumentReference"?


## Notes
### DocFest  - Sept 16, 2021 - 7am-11am PDT
* CFP mailed out to SPDX-tech list, will be mentioned in SPDX general call on Thursday.
   * Goals: The goals of this DocFest are to:
       * come to agreement on how the fields should be populated for a given artifact
       * identify instances where different use cases might lead to different choices for fields and structures of documents
       * assess how well the NTIA SBOM minimum elements are covered
       * create a set of reference SPDX SBOMs as part of the corpus for further tooling evaluation.
* Further details will be mailed up to those who sign up at: https://forms.gle/gEfBZfaNmPXUJ6Xg7
* Gary looking for python based tooling help,  he'll handle Java,  Steve will handle golang.
* SPDX Asia may set up something similar.

### GSoC Update
* License matching on Python - presenting on Thursday general call
* JSON support for golang - parser has been merged in, and printing out in progress.   Next month.
* Specification parsing - presenting on Thursday general call
* Online tools --> python 3 - good positive activities, but no details.

### Document Namespaces & Elements
* Thread on mailing list:
* Sean's ID structure - is it compatible or not with 2.2?
* 2.2 namespace -> tied to Document
* 3.0 namespace -> tied to Element (?)
* No hashes as URIs don't have hashes
* In 2.2 Document has to have a namespace and the namespace has to be unique. No other requirements. Any valid URI with the exception of the fragment(?) in the URI string.
* All Elements have "SPDXRef-" and all licenses have "LicenseRef-"
* Reason: having this format allows for linking between the serialized data formats.
* Reason (RDF): If you wanted to have a reference ID that is not in the document then you can avoid collisions.
* (Sean) Issue: Hashes would break (URI?) specification
* (Sean) Proposal: Label should be the element type in 3.0 - more granular.
* (Gary) Namespace tied to document or not is key issue.   # sign is added when translate from linked data to fragment.   Documents have namespaces,  and localIDs are relative to the document.
* Nisha:  Would domains and subdomains be able to be linked to document?
* (Gary) Fragments are convenient.
* Sean:  Linked data is a semantic web concept.   ie.  SBOMs as of top 50 projects on Github.   Rather than whole thing as a files,  have it as a graph that can exist natively, managed by github.   In localized context, your content can have a reference to id of SBOM published by github.   Request to exposed SPARQL database endpoint, pulled in dynamic.   More seamless exchange.   Data can be made from multiple other places.   But Links are done as SPARQL endpoints...  #s will break the linked data.
   * Gary:  There is linked data and it uses hashes in 2.2,  assuming that a document is a namespace.  It is being used is his own tool.
* Sebastian:  Would prefer to not have semantic data in IDs,  string parsing is harder.   Will be more elegant to have as a property in the element itself.
  * Sean: labels are human hints,  doesn't make it easier for processing by machine.    Have to have as property in object.
  * Kate: human readablity is going to be significant for adoption.
  * William:  having something that is human readable helps with debugging.
  * Sebastian: Contextual reference and collection have ids.   Ease for tooling is most important
  * Bob:  A human is going to be needed for assurance and building trust,  readability is going to be key.
* David:  Is there a scope for local IDs within a namespace?   Resources with a namespace.
   * Sean:  Namespace must be unique,  agree within the namespace ids are unique.   So we have globally unique ids.   Any namespace ids are only associated with a document is challenge.   Want to see namespaces & ids being  in context beyond a document.   Linked data - namespace vs. fragments?
   * Gary: Linked data is being exactly as you described today.  In 2.2 is unit of serialziation, containment, analysis are assumed to be grouped together.   Assumption that any SPDX id exists with an element.
   * Bob: Having ability to import,  create, follow paradign - model is proposed without the presumptions, but does the other ones.
* Nisha:  Purl would be a good way to include document namespace and internal document references
   * Kate:  Multiple PURLs can refer to same package
   * Sean:  Cannot reference in someone else's databases with PURLs.
* Alexios:  What is minimum addressable unit:   documents, elements/fragments within.
   * William:  We need to refer to elements outside the immediate context for relationships.    External map tells how to get to document.   Relationships are between elements - where ever it lives.
   * Is
* David: We agree that there must be "namespace" and "ID", therefore there must be an unambiguious boundary between namespace and ID.
   * If "#" does not work for some use cases, we still need an alternate way of separating them
     * namespace:id
     * namespace?id
     * namespace|id
     * namespace#id
   * Are we arguing about whether a boundary is needed, or what character we're using to denote the boundary?
      * Sean:  I agree that we are debating the character to use for the boundary. I am suggesting we choose a character that works for all use cases.  In other efforts I have been involved in, “—“ has been used as the separator.  Between the namespace and the label and between the label and the subid.

* Namespace being tied to document?  serialization issue.
  * Want to be able to translate between serialization and non linked data serialiation.
  * Context that is copied into each element.    Collection of element that describes something.  Refering back to one place with common context.
  * Document says that all the elements it contains has common context information.
  * Capturing of metadata associated with creation.    Duplicating on each element doesn't make sense.
  * Type of element that describes a set of 1 or more elements.   Primary use case being validation of document.
  * meta-meta data - important to capture data.   How do we do the meta-meta data and reference it?
  * Documents are elements,  meta-meta data.   Split apart serialization, namespaces, meta-meta -  properties.
  * Properties in elements, overrides the version on the grouping/document level.   Model supports it today, breaking.
  * Sean references STIX community - Bundle contains 10K objects - properties on top object level.   Everthing inside bundle inherits from if not specified.   Banks/CISA/...  any element within the document, but deserialize into graph, has properties, but will interited.    Created time/poperties... inherited,  local overrides.      Different model may be able to be simpler.
  * William : This is the difference between the SPDXID and the ArtifactURL, the SPDXID is referring to the “description of the artifact/element”, but the artifactUrl is the pointer to what the artifact is and can be described in multiple ways (Microsoft’s description of it, VMWare’s description of it, the project’s description of itself), those would all have different SPDXIDs but would refer to the same artifactUrls


* Can we separate namespace for identifiers from meta-meta issues?   General agreement
  * Can we agree namespaces are useful for SPDX?  Yes
     * Sebastian/Nisha:  Namespaces facilitate physical fetching, but should not be globally unique identifiers.
     * Kate/Sean: Globally unique identifiers need some global namespace and local identifiers.  For any given id, should not get two different ids.   All of the namespaces within the id are unique.


* We want to support linked data,   tag:value (aka human readable) - agreement.

* How should identifiers be treated in non-linked data formats?   as well as linked data formats?

* Full identifiers would be URIs
* Namespace should be associated with elements.
* To be clear, namespaces, are URIs not URLs, uri:foo-bar is valid

* String replacement shorthand for serialization can be separated from model.

* ID of elements should be constructed by namespace+internal id.   Needs to be on id of object.
   * Point in time is significant for global uniqueness of namespaces.

* Request from Sebastian is to send examples.
* Bob - operationally shown than random spaces will have collisions.   Been trying this for 20 years.
* Example of Fireeye - 100B  nodes has collisions.

* Summary:   namespace + uniqueid has agreement.    Separators - # & "/" have issues.   "--" or "__".   avoid "?" - future discussion.


Pending Topics:
Separator Discussion (IdString type)
Label Discussion
License Model Discussion
Document Level properties - how do we represent.
