SPDX Tech Team Minutes, January 5, 2021

## Attending
* Kate Stewart
* Alexios Zavras
* Gary ONeall
* William Bartholomew
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Rose Judge
* Steve Winslow
* Karsten Klein
* Nishad Thalhath - University, interest of Semantic Web.
* Peter Shin


## Agenda:
* FOSDEM -
* GSOC  SPDX
* Internships
* Github Actions
* Roundtable


## Notes:

* FOSDEM
   - Rose agreed to present on Tern at SCA devroom. (after arm twisting by Kate)

* GSOC Project ideas
   - tools for building spec itself
   - clearly defined
   - python libraries - more modular and rewrite  (LFX+GSoC)
      - larger than GSoC; Alexios willing to mentor this effort

* Interns
  - come up with a list of projects that are longer term and having sustained effort.
  - Internships maybe able to be covered by some companies.
  - Gary to reach out to Matt Germonprez and University of Omaha, Nebraska may be a possible source of students
  - Thomas to reach out to Dirk, see if interest.   University of Berlin.

* Github Actions - William to follow up.
  - License List builder needs this soon.

* Process - single source of truth - Protege (Stanford project) - what feedback?
  - see email from Alexios.
  - Link to Protege Web: https://protegewiki.stanford.edu/wiki/WebProtege
  - Link to SPDX on Protege Web: https://webprotege.stanford.edu/#projects/2c69eb23-21a4-4f05-b477-987e561e1b23/edit/Classes

### Roundtable on Profiles:

* Core: William
  - need to come to conclusion before we divide things up.
  - 3T-SBOM and SPDX Core alignment.   Some differing opinions,   package/bundle/etc.
    - Some concept of grouping is still under discussion- don't see as fundamental.
  - Should be able to start writing -- need to assign names to subsections
  - External Document Ref,  vs. Exteranl Ref.  -- clean up confusion as part of 3.0

* Security: Thomas
  - Have finished up work in 3T-SBOM,  but need to sync up with core.
  - Naming of the fields is an issue.   Challenge is fitting it into core.
  - Separate call, then bring to this meeting.   William to sync with Thomas, talk on Friday.

* Licensing:  Steve
  - As is before the break.   Some initial discussions with legal/tech team.
  - Next step: move shared google doc into format for spec,  then iterated in public github repo.
  - Pending on process discussions.   OWL collaborative tool ok as way to capture,  and rule on how markdown is formatted.

* Linkage/Provenance: (pending update from Nisha)
  - signing documents - where does it belong?  3T Integrity work to be leveraged?

* Pedigree: Kate
  - Kate has been reviewing approaches in reproducable builds, looking at using a intoto approach
  - Kate and Thomas to sync up
  - Others interested in this area, please contact Kate for follow-up discussions

* Usage: Japan team
  - pending

### Other cool stuff

- Rose working on making JSON SPDX report available from Tern.

* Open Questions from Nishad Thalhath:
  - can use SPDX URIs to use for linked data?
    - URIs for listed licesnes are stable.
  - can content negotiation for URI
    - good idea, but we don't support today.   Suggestions and improvements on RDF model are welcome.
    - Added issue to license-list-XML: https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1166
  - this is a good opportunity to improve RDF model as part of 3.0.
  - license that aren't in ontology - brining in other licenses - Wikidata, etc.  knowledge graph
  - https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q18491847
  - interest from Alexios and Steve on how to sync up with semantic web.
  - semantic projects in knowld

* Thoughts from Karsten Klein:
  - make consistent set between OSI, SPDX, ScanCode
  - Stable identifiers for all kinds of licenses,  good area for discussion.
  - 1500 licenses in current databases.  Modeling.

* Interest in Security profile summary.
  - interest to join the call on Friday, to brings concerns forware.    Software BOM,  cycloneDX interest.
  - most of requirements met by CycloneDX today.   What's happening in 3.0?
