# SPDX Technical Team Minutes, February 2, 2021

## Attendees:
* Sean Barnum
* Willilam Bartholomew
* William Cox
* Adrian Diglio
* Brian Fox
* Jim Hutchison
* Rose Judge
* Karsten Klein
* Nisha Kumar
* Bob Martin
* Gary O'Neall
* Ariel Patano
* Jorge Rodriguez-Moreno
* Peter Shin
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Kate Stewart
* Nishad Thalhath
* Kay Williams
* Steve Winslow
* Alexios Zavras

## Agenda:
* Prep for GSoC tooling projects in 2021 (Gary) - 10 minutes
* Request from Kay - discuss weekly meeting - 60 minutes enough?
* Upcoming NTIA Formats Plugfest (Kate)  - 5 minutes
* Formatting & process of collaboration continued. (Alexios and Gary analysis). - 30 min

## Notes:

Survey for new tech team meeting times: https://doodle.com/poll/n8tu6mnqsyuaeuha?utm_source=poll&utm_medium=link
- Question - is 60 minutes enough? Discuss with William

FOSDEM dev rooms:
- complete list: https://fosdem.org/2021/schedule/
- of interest:
  - https://fosdem.org/2021/schedule/track/software_composition/
    - SPDX related talks
  - https://fosdem.org/2021/schedule/track/legal_and_policy_issues/
  - https://fosdem.org/2021/schedule/track/openchain/

GSoC
- mentoring - looking for more:  Steve, Rohit, Rishab, Gary, ??
- project ideas:   web site is at:
    RDF to OWL,  conversion.   JSON/YAML in golang.
    Go through last years projects for gaps from packager manager and add to web wiki at: https://wiki.spdx.org/view/GSOC/GSOC_ProjectIdeas#Proposed_2021_Projects
    Upgrade python 3,  and django 3.   Need to be added.

Documentation Process
- Thomas:  resolved an action item from last week’s meeting to fix v2.2.1 branch. See https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/commits/development/v2.2.1 the same 3 commits have now been merged in 1.
- Branch to use for SPDX 3.0 - <insert link>   currently its in 3.0 backup.   Need to convert this to the model.
example of markdown format for automatic processing: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/development/v3.0_backup/chapters/2-base-profile.md
(and the rest on that branch)
- Ariel: I was told to open issues with SPDX templates here: https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML.  Sounds like those should go to the above?
    - License list issues to license-list-XML (not license-list data)
    - Spec changes goes to spdx-spec,  need to revisit for 3.0 if we're going to include License List as appendix
    - Language - go against the tooling.
- Sean: two areas of concern or suggestions - form of ground truth of the specification.
    - Human readable content in template --> Formal RDF/OWL (have seen this approach have problems)
    - If a community member identifies and issue,  initial change be discussed in human readable fashion,  what does the change require to change implementation.
    - What will the mapping between the human readable to the formality?  Textual view will capture pure human written, as part of the template.   Anyone involved can contribute to the explanatory.    Formality of model is derived and popularilty to model.   Make sure not human ambiguity.    Not intending to imply its all the model.   Formal RDF/OWL --> markdown via template.
    - Goals:  Everyone can contribute,   Control over what's in the formal model
    - Need to establish: Minimum bar for change management with the community.

- Rigor:
    - are there any options that any of the SPDX feel that we haven't been rigourous enough?
    - Steve:  allignment on things that should be added between profiles.    What gets into the spec is going to need to be specific coordination.
    - Up until now we've been operating as rough concensus on significant changes.    Operating rules were formalized 3 to 4 years ago.
    - Not that different from what was happening in 3T.
    - Reistance to getting adopting something like ISO voting.
    - William it doesn't have to be either/or issue.
    - Nervous about the release process --> table issue.    What gets merged in, who approved by.
    - Change process for day to day is via github,  people can rework.
    - Actual proposed things to lead to changes, have issues associated with them, notification to push change,  sprint for discussions.   Look who had comments, who agreed, ... status tracked visibility.   Allow property of change.
    - William to document a process - show status'ing.          Automatically apply labels, and consent list, without too burdensome.

    - Draft to use as a template for markdown.   William will create a PR into SPDX 3.0 Branch and folks can look and start to comment.

    - Gary,  can we take markdown and translate to RDF/OWL.?
    - Sean, RDF/OWL - Protoge wasn't the most intiutive.   Suggest Atom.
    - Nisha,  For example: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/development/v3.0/chapters/img/spdx-2.2-rdf-ontology.png doesn’t have all the “artifact” objects.
    - Bulk of community should not need to think about how
    - https://pypi.org/project/ontodocs/ OntoDocs,  OntoSpy?, OntoGendoc? - can autogenerate documentation in ontology --> markdown.   Players understand underlying model, and then apply to generate.   Our human spec, adjust to our template with our text. "Other text to model", document.     This could be an alternative to our current proposed Markdown based approach
    - Textual description in easy to edit format.  Want broadest contribution to getting this text right.
    - Analysis:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EGoAmKxPfmmlF3XV6fXwNmsCiFKLH83Bhh8_xrmGhko/edit

- William suggest hybrid: I wonder if we could do a dynamic import of the description (e.g. import classname + “.md”)
- Pull almost everything out of the model, except for the description files, external to the model.   Model controls how it gets stitched together.   Text isn't stuck inside the model.
- Concern that if the model is the basis, only a small number of individuals can contribute to the solutions
- Would need to figure out how we merge the changes - do the changes in the text get rolled back into the model?

Discusion ensued ending up on:
- That we just want to sure that modeling perspective as early as possible involved in the discussion chain.
- We have agreement that there shouldn't be a centralized group which only makes the changes to the model - anyone should be able to contribute specific solutions
- We all agreed that those with modeling expertise should review changes impacting the model very early in the process
- Anyone can open an issue and pull request
- eAnyone can propose a change - experts on modeling would flag it in the issue directly, if there was consideration.

1) I think I know what to change in model, submit, have review by the experts.
2) If there is a change that involves the modeling, and a specified small group of individuals is able to make the changes.

Don't want to preume #1,  but enable both.

Next Meeting:
* Assess result of homework,  do we have agreement on flow - 30 min
* Naming continued (external map). (William & Sean) - 45 min
