# SPDX Tech Team Meeting, September 28, 2021

## Attendees

* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Phillipe Ombredanne
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* Steve Lasker
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Agenda

* IANA types
* 2.1.X release repository updates, 3.0 Git repository
* pURL specification - identity and location
* Download location - question on NOASSERTION vs. full spec
* List of outstanding questions from last week

## Notes

Steve Lasker - artifact registries support; draft specification (https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/) to support SBOMs etc. inside of the registries
-  Making yet another storage service is very expensive; putting SBOM support into existing registries reduces costs

### PURL
- Issue with proposed changes to PURL that might inhibit use of SPDX
- Question - does this impact our adoption of PURL?
- PURL is currently in the spec and does provide a useful purpose
- Current thread in PURL (issue #127 in PURL repo)
  - Content can move, PURL should be able to accomodate this
  - Problems with using the same property for identity and location
- William - the different ecosystems should define how to differentiate location from identity
- Is location always tied to the identity?
  - depends on ecosystem (e.g. NPM when there is no hash, the location is part of the identity)
  - OCI - location should not be part of identity but may be provided as a hint
- Difference between static value and dynamic value
- How would Debian NodeJS packages be referenced?
- Question on governance for PURL if we need to represent an SPDX need when other PURL contributors have differing intentions
- Core issue on making location optional and supporting OCI - William suggested this may become ecosystem specific which would help solve the issue
- Example provided by Steve L. where you have a signed SBOM used in a secure "air gapped" environment
- Philippe - similar issues with other ecosystems where PURL seems to work
- Philippe - I see no issue having the default location be optional for a given purl type - This may be weird and problematic and less useful as in the end there is a need to get to something, and short of a purl type-provided default repository URL location you could not locate. But that's OK, Philippe will follow-up on allowing a default repository URL location to be optional for a given type for the issue submitted by Rose, Nisha, and Steve L.
Note that in all case you would need some repo or registry location at runtime and/or fetch to effectively retrive the package archives, so that's weird but possible.
- William -  I think the essence is that for some ecosystems location is a hint to locate, in others it’s integral to the identity. Specifying that per ecosystem would make it clearer.
- Philippe: actually a default package type location is a essential to locate, but not essential to identify, especially if the identity is "strongly" content-defined like with a sha256. I explained the reasoning with some examples in https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/127#issuecomment-929396642


### Modeling questions from last week
- Should we introduce a collection class?
  - Kate - do we need this extra level of abstraction beyond a document?
  - William - scenario where there is one document with multiple collections (e.g. more than one SBOM; collection of licenses)
  - Document and contextual collection shares a number of properties - makes sense to create an abstract class
  - As an abstract class, collection wouldn't be represented in a physical document
  - Sebastian - is the purpose of collection for containing the prefixing?
    - William - More than just prefixing, but prefixing is one more reason to create the abstract Collection class
  - Difference between root element and contextual collection
  - William - slightly different semantics - root element is the tip of the graph - tells you where to start
  - David - written description of what the difference between a contextual collection and a document
- Sebastian - Question on use of colon - deferred to future meeting

### IANA Mime Types
- Rose registered tag/value
- Question - should we add JSON, YAML, XML
- Yes on JSON and YAML
- Hold off on XML until it gets a bit more stable
- Question on how it relates to 3.0?
  - Do we change mime types?
  - Suggest using the same mime types
- Rose will follow-up and submit JSON and YAML to IANA
Registry https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml#application indicates media types of the form application/spdx+json.  Version is not in media type, it is discovered by examining the document.
