# SPDX Technical Team meeting,   October 5, 2021

## Attendees
* Amith KK (Unisys)
* Bob Martin
* David Edelsohn
* David Kemp
* Gary O'Neall
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* Jim Hutchison
* John Horan
* Kate Stewart
* Maik Riechert
* Mark Gisi
* Nisha Kumar
* Philippe Ombredanne
* Rose Judge
* Sebastian Crane
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Bartholomew

## Regrets

* Sean Barnum

## Topics
* Amith introduction
* Repo cleanup
* Identifiers cont'd - lacking quorum
* PURL for content addressible artifacts

## Amith introduction
Amith - doing SBOM generation for products at Unisys, and then put on DBOM

## SPDX GitHub repository

Gary - have got the different branches up and commits tagged for specification as submitted to ISO and finally published by ISO

## 3.0 discussions
Is there a good place to get an update on where 3.0 is?
How does one submit a new profile?
- William: in theory there is but someone has to maintain the serialization formats
- User defined profile would be nice to experiment with own customer base
- Kate: "subset" causes some confusion "extensions" is more understandable

## PURL
* Content addressible pushback - must provide a location.   Package download location should be a location.   Is SPDX open to defining an IRI for artifacts that are content addressible.    Artifacts where user may not know location, but may know which tool can be used to fetch and checksum and signature.
  * Henk:  Does tool include discovery?    Nisha:  maybe, maybe not.    Folks using tools don't know what it does.
  * Henk:  Mechanics are there, and identifier is there, but location is missing.    Fetching requires multiple queries.
  * Package Downloadlocation - beyond NOASSERTION - including the partial info.   Artifact ID fetched with a specific tool.      Henk & Bob both pointing MUD - indirection, location redirect to MUD file, then points to wider continum - has evolved into RFC https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8520 for discovery.
  * NTIA MUD SBOM https://www.ntia.gov/files/ntia/publications/ntia_sbom_sharing_exchanging_sboms-10feb2021.pdf
  * William commented on discussions in PURL and locations.   PURL types that don't have default repository - ie. golang.   Repository URL is optional in this case.   Implication.    In OCI/PURL type can get to reasonable place.  PURL is a combination identifier and locator.  Need mechanism to determine if locator is significant when comparing PURLs for equality.
   * Philippe to take care of this with Steve re: there isn't a repository.   Content like RPMs, etc. may not be present.   Useless to not know where to fetch, but shouldn't indicate validity/invalid.
   * PURL supporting OCI makes sense
   * Download location:  can be specified out,   can be extended to be more OCI specific.    Tool + transport can be extended to OCI format.
      * Sebastian:  download location outside element.    Wasteful to create new.
      * Gary:  semantics of download location, that worked at time element was created.
      * William: I think there was a proposal for download location to move to external references because purl should cater for it in most scenarios.
      * Original element stay immutable.   Avoid authority is challenge.   SPDX defines it as out of scope.
      * List of download flavors, no harm in including MUD in it.    Subscribing updates to SWID tags.
      * Henk:   pointing Sebastian to SWIMA: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8412.html
    * Some agreement to make it not mandatory.
    * Part of element reference, not element itself.
    * William:  Dan Lorenc did a great presentation on Zero Trust for Supply Chains making that very argument (integrity over location) https://dlorenc.medium.com/zero-trust-supply-chain-security-e3fb8b6973b8
    * Gary:  Context of the download is handy for understanding licensing.   Choice of licenses may have been made for you.    Integrity is most important.    Optional is fine.    Reluctant to say this is where it was downloaded from - context outside element.    Alternate mechanisms where it could also find should be different field.  Note: concers that links don't stay valid.
    * Rose:  keep PURL out of download location.

* DECISION:   Download location will be optional in 3.0 core.
* CONCERN:  PURLs will not always be authorative identity.   Can't validate integrity.   Build from source is only way to have integrity.   Element IRIs vs. Artifact URLs.   Element IRIs correspond to integrity value of element, thus are independent of element download location.  Cross documents.   Verification of metadata should be solid.
*  IDEA:  Conflicting element in future doc fest, do the tools detect?

## Security
* Missing:  Serialization of this model going to look like.
* Interconnection with various standards.   Calls need to restart.

David:  Model in UML tool format?   Just drawIO.   Haven't validated that model is correct.
Alexios on template file.    David working on trying to generate serializations, from information model.
Looking to derive from official source.   Agenda topic for next week.   Serialization.
Gary cautions on XMI.      Use OWL & SHACL and test as source for diagram.

Nisha:  Some of inputs going into model rely on serializations, and am noticing that serialization for JSON doesn't make sense if translate directly from model.   Have to do some simplification.    William:  expected to be per format.   JSON vs JSON-LD vs. XML - Individual maintainers of serializations?    Yes.
More native to format, more mapping will be required.    David to get together with Nisha offline.   Need Alexios for this discussion.

Do we split into working groups with focusing on each of the serializations.   Common cases?   See variation differing.     Automotive /  Energy  wanting to string together.

Time for cookbooks - real examples.   npm examples --> docker
https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples

Revisiting use cases from 2.2 should be done as well cookbook.
Kate & Bob - interested in comparing SPDX use cases, alignment with Bob's 9 cases.
https://github.com/goneall/spdx-use-cases  <-- start to flesh out.   38 that are in WIKI format.
https://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/Use_Cases/2.0
https://www.mitre.org/publications/technical-papers/standardizing-sbom-within-the-sw-development-tooling-ecosystem
