# SPDX Asia Tech Meeting, Nov 8, 2021

## Attendees
* Joshua Marpet
* Shane Couglan
* Takashi Ninjouji
* Hiro Fukuchi
* Shi Qui
* Norio Kobota
* Yoshiyuki Ito
* Kate Stewart

## Agenda
* Podcast
* SPDX Governance Change (& Membership)
* Usage Profile?
* CAICT

## Notes
### Podcast
* Times proposed - would same time next week work?  its 10am in Japan.
* Don't need to have all 5 in one go.   We can have multiple sessions 2 or 3 each time as well.
* Why is SPDX important?  Slow relaxed discussion.
* Kobota-san will discuss time with other members.
* 11/15 or 11/22 at same options will work,   please let Joshua know when it will work best.
* Kobota-san will send email to Joshua with preferences.
* Goal is to have fun.  Joshua wants to be there if possible, but not essential.  Ok for Japan team to record on its own.
* How long prefer for each episode?   If multiples - 2 different times - one 5-10 minutes,  one 30-60 minutes
* If like to do in Japanese language, that is ok.
* Will figure out by end of week, and let Joshua know.

### SPDX Governance
* https://spdx.dev/about/governance/
* https://enrollment.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/?project=spdx
* Governance has transitioned, website is not yet transitioned, but membership agreement is on the site.
* Those who are able to are welcome to join as members of the project.
* All the logos are there.
* last week was rather busy.
Please encourage your company to sign up!!!!

###Member Summit
* LF Member summit in person last week
* Google logo got added in one day!!!!
* Keynote on SPDX given at member summit.
* Fukuchi-san was interviewed by the LF public affairs office.

### Usage Profile
* Ito-san:   starting discussion with Japanese members, more next time.

### CAICT
* Interested in being first 3rd party certifier for SPDX 2.2.1
* Global engagement and respect international IP
* Measure on security assessment on data,  data left undefined.
* Certifying the ISO standard - lead auditor/team per the ISO standard.
