# SPDX Asia Technical Meeting Minutes,  March 1, 2021

## Attendees
* Yoshiyuki Ito
* Hiro Fukuchi
* Shane Coughlan
* Nisha Kumar
* Kate Stewart

## Agenda
* update on template work
* update on Linkage profile (Nisha)
* progress on Usage Profile

## Notes
* showed where minutes being recorded (spdx.swinslow.net/p/spdx-minutes) --> https://github.com/spdx/meetings/tree/master/tech
* Provide link to SPDX 3.0 Template in discussion with Gary & Alexios.
* Nisha illustrated use case from containers.
  * Listing all relationships in one document gets overwhelming.   should the relationships just belong in one profile?
  * Should have external references to another document describing that package?

* Fukuchi - has seen same kind of lists with libc & linux.  Refactoring external documents in this is interesting use case.
* Ito - interested in this as well.    Libc is a good example.   Embedded based on downloaded source code analysis perspective.   Using source code tag, for implicit.
* Nisha - all of these packages are produced in different ecosystems.   Would be nice if they had SPDX documents that your code can then reference.    Fukuchi likes this idea.
* Fukuchi - Libraries and Containers, case by case vary. for complex systems,  directory structures.
* Nisha - backend of images is called a registry, and stores artifacts,  downloads a manifest, and then downloads the pieces,  can have something similar for documents at this point.
* Fukuchi - Idea is worth exploring.
* Nisha - stakeholders asking for smaller documents, so using an external link, can solve this.

* Shane suggests SPDX webinar in future?

* Usage Profile
  * 3 fields are being discussed as mandatory.
  * expect that the use cases able to describe with these 3 fields from current proposal.

* Linkage Profile trend is of interest to Japan working group.   Pedigree & Provenance may also of interest.
* Work group have to study about SBOM.
  * Kate provided overview of the NTIA efforts to represent an SBOM (which SPDX can support)
  * Consumer and Producer Playbooks were of interest - links at:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ae0l1MDS8m1on58e8mdVIA9NujzPD0k5j352VlDZr9I/edit
  * https://docs.google.com/document/d/16FwpPX3P0Pd1D82Dp2VmpRnaMWUA-wvfXbL7AIXDthM/edit
