# SPDX Asia Tech Meeting, March 8, 2021

## Attendees
* Nisha Kumar
* Norio Kobota
* Yoshiyuki Ito
* Takashi Ninjouji
* Kate Stewart


Agenda:
- New Field in Usage Profile (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gvcU3Qgs5IH_SbVoeYLt1PSwuTgEX3RTr6CEcUQ6hXc/edit#heading=h.x8df7ykvzy8o)
- Discussion started on how to link to which product a package is part of.
- Does it make sense to consider using https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/appendix-VI-external-repository-identifiers/
- Supplemental Usage information is under discussion.
- Product information may not be fixed yet.    So may be worth refer to another SPDX document for product.
- Development phase of embedded system,  starting with supplier side, but integrator may make updates.
- Timescale considerations from consumer and supplier side.   So no SPDX document may exist at the point, so keeping to specific fields (name, version, ...) may be needed.

- Nisha:
  - External Document Reference (aka External Map) - would like to see a relation and external identifier.
  - PURL suits container use case fairly well.   Backend several hops to get to repository.
  - Cloud Native - REST API - but backend can be any kind of storage.   Each API versioned differently too.

- What relationships missing?
  - maybe use of CONTAINED_BY?
  - This could also be TEST_TOOL?
  - Use for testing but not production?

- Nisha notes that we could also model policy around the relationships.    ComponentA, can contain ComponentB, but only in the testing Scope.
- Security and Compliance would like to have Policy modeling as well.
- Scopes may be around time that it exists for?   Related to specific aspects?   Around Geo?

- Infrastructure Question - define components in infrastructure?
- example knative - what would a release of knative be called?   How would a Ci/CD based on Knative be specificed.
- Different suppilers, automotive - has units part number and where it needs to go.
- Checksum of OCI spec,  not of whole package, only manifest of the package.  Pointer to pointer.
- Putting all the info into one string may be awkward.
- Package URL - will tell domain and transport
- What is the transport,  tool being used to build, upload tools, download tools, may be needed to understand what dealing with.
- Checksum for External Document - may different for containers.
- Package in container context - distributed, temporary grouping of "things"

- Containers grappling with things automotive industry has been looking at for a while.

- Relationships between External Elements.   Attestations are relationships?   May help to have build traceability and trust.   Relationships that contain attestations and signatures would be helpful.
Good compromise?   Turn external identifiers into fields in a relationship element.

- Next month:  Kate to share build profile ideas next month.

- Software Identification challenges from NTIA
   - 4 ways of identify:   CPE, PURL, SWHIDs, SWID_Tags  under discussions.
   - no perfect solution
   - How to notify when its been modified?   Relationships may help.
   - How to express in SW360?
