SPDX Asia Team meeting - 14th Feb 2022

## Attendees
* Hiro Fukuchi
* Joshua Marpet
* Kate Stewart
* Yoshiyuki Ito

## Agenda
* 3.0 Usage profile - updates?
* 2.3 Release - any fields from Usage Profile to include?
* 2.3 Release - update SPDX-Lite to have mandated NTIA fields? (PackageSupplier)
* Community News

## Notes

### 3.0  Update
* Usage Profile - review of fields proposed by Japan team.
  * Product Name & Product Version - when software provided with hardware.
  * Intendede Usage Level - Josh suggests working to align with https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technology_readiness_level  - production ready, for evaluation, ...
  * Intended Usage Scope - consumer / medical / automotive
  * License Clearance:  Write comment if not done.    GPL v3 included, etc.
  * Testing Level:  alpha, beta,   TBD)
  * Support:  commercial support, no support.
  * Valid Until:   ... date, event (CVE updated), etc.   Manage consumer & supplier relationship.
  * How intend it to be used... impact.
  * Kate to share with wider group - starting to move this under wider review.

* Defects Profile - starting to meet on Wednesday afternoon.   See email list.
  * How to link from SBOM to vulnerability report.

### 2.3 Update
* Do we want a subset of Usage Profile fields in next 2.3?
  * Timeline:   End of March
* Package Supplier added to SPDX Lite?
   *  AI:  Fukuchi-san to confirm with Japan workgroup and if ok, send pull request.

### Community News
* Podcast
  * New Admin,  Mellisa, please work with her to get the Podcast scheduled.
  * AI: Kate to let Sebastian know
* FOSDEM
  * SBOM talks were the focus in https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/track/software_composition_and_dependency_management/
  * talk from Sebastian in Security Devroom on SBOMs see:  https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/event/security_sbom/
* Collecting GSoC proposals - https://wiki.spdx.org/view/GSOC/GSOC_ProjectIdeas (reach out to Alexios if you have ideas or are willing to mentor)
  * Lack of verification of SPDX field values.   Check docfest results.
