# SPDX Asia Team Meeting 2023-01-09

## Attendees
* Gary O'Neal
* Hiro Fukuchi
* Kate Stewart
* Norio Kobota 
* Shane Coughlan
* Takashi Ninjouji
* Teppei Asaba
* Yoshiyuki Ito
* Yoshiya Eto


## Agenda
* Usage Profile Update
* Topics - Implementers Forum and what forms a "Quality" SBOM
* SPDX 3.0 

## Notes
* 3 meetings after Open Compliance Summit. 
   * 2 or 3 typical use cases being refined. 
     * Deliverable is provide in several installments over the life of the contract. 
     * Restrictions on intermediate deliverables,  so that usage can only be partial in organization.
     * Explicitly know that a new version will be replaced in next version. 
* Supplier heirarchy can not have visibility into contracts, so SBOM is a way to signal to signal intentions and conditions association with usage downstream.   
* Relationship between elements - draft slide.    Usage profile elements will have independent closure and description.     Looking how to model.   Discussion with Gary.  see: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vyTjxyt5eE2jbYMo-MzmfPjdapMZLtNU/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=116114647877055468648&rtpof=true&sd=true
* Looking at "Meta level" rather than "Packages"
* Discussion of "Profile"  - consists of: 
   * Cardinality of core properties  (restrictions) - some unique to specific profiles.  (ie. what's manditory from core)  
   * Namespace:  Property & class names uniquely applicable to the profile.  

* FOSDEM meeting - Feb 5th - SBOM Dev Room

* Implementers forum -  every other week.   Intended for both - for tool writers. 
  * Most of attendees are open source tool providers,  but not restricted to only.
  * Using for outstanding issues from last "DocFest" - how impove quality of fields 
  
* Interoperability between CDX & SPDX - Gary working on tools.   
   * Some PRs outstanding - In CDX is C# utilities take SPDX --> CDX;    In SPDX repo:  CDX --> SPDX  utilities (https://github.com/spdx/cdx2spdx)   Help welcome,  looking for testing & feedback. 
   
* SPDX 3.0 - classes & model being populated in January.
