# SPDX Asia Meeting 2023-03-20
## Attendees
* Hiro Fukuchi
* Takashi Ninjouji
* Kouki Hama
* Norio Kobota
* Yoshiyuki Ito
* Steve Winslow
* Kate Stewart

## Agenda
* SPDX Lite profile in 3.0

## Notes
* Can SPDX Lite be defined across Profile?   Yes
* In V 3.0, SPDX Lite fields are split into Core Profile, Software Profile and Licensing Profile. Can SPDX Lite be defined across Profiles?
* Yes, think of like Namespace, where there is a set of fields.
* Care needs to be take that the Licensing profile handles more use cases, than Lite (which is smaller scope at package level).
* Lite will pull in fields from Licensing, Software & Core.

* What is the position of what is defined across Profile? (Can you call it a Profile?)
* Would be nicer to have better term, but this is what we have right now. 

* Does the SPDX Lite need to satisfy the NTIA minimum elements? Is it particularly necessary to revise V 2.3 to accommodate this?  (background: https://github.com/OpenChain-Project/OpenChain-JWG/blob/master/subgroups/sbom-sg/outcomes/SPDX-Lite/spdx-lite-overview-20190829.pdf) 
* For SPDX Lite to satisfy the NTIA minimum elements, it must include Relationship field
* In V 3.0, the Licensing Profile should have the same issues
* Relationship is difficult for beginners and different from the concept of SPDX Lite
* Benefits of Relationship in license compliance is unclear
* If the NTIA minimum elements requirement is not satisfied, SPDX Lite will no longer be used in the market as SBOMs as defined by legislation (= SPDX Lite is no longer usable).
* Minimum relationship field.   CONTAINS & NONE?
* Suggest we have "DESCRIBES & CONTAINS" as well as NOASSERTION & NONE.
* Usage Profile
* Draft in progress,  look for branch and PR.
