SPDX Defects Team meeting - 30th March 2022

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Anthony Harrison
* VM Brasseur
* William Cox
* Christian Long
* Dick Brooks
* Karsten Klein
* Jeff Schutt
* Bob Martin
* Henk Birkholz

## Agenda
* General
  * Approval of minutes of last week's meeting
  * Other topics / news
    * Dick: request for discussion around "attestation" type
* Adding linking to security vulnerability information in SPDX 2.3
  * Go through option 2 reference type values/definitions
  * Type definitions (recap of where we left off )
    * Agreed upon `advisory`, `disclosure`, `fix` and `web`/`url` ref types
    * `Disclosure`: A link to a vulnerability response
    * `Advisory`: A published security advisory for the vulnerability

## Notes
### General
* Any objections to approving https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/140? No objections, Rose will merge

### Attestation Type discussion
* Jeff: perhaps we should delay discussion on this until we have basic security use case first
* Thomas: This likely needs to be discussed on the SPDX tech call to decide which 3.0 profile will handle this.
* Dick: formally withdraws this discussion topic for today :)
  * NIST defines three types of "Attestations" (actually meaning "Endorsments")

### Adding linking to security vulnerability information in SPDX 2.3
* Jeff: looking for clarity on 1) decision to exclude discussion on status of the component inside an SPDX document for 2.3 - saw Kate and someone else want status description? 2) saw "status" used in the notes
* Thomas: we want these minimum elements in 2.3; anything related to status can be added in 2.3.1.
* Jeff: this is why I proposed "comment" field to give flexibility to standard to use forward without minimizing effectiveness of SPDX. We have discussed need of SPDX to align with direction of VEX, security advisories/disclosures. If we use the four minimum from last week we are not aligning with these standards
* Rose: the `url` is the default type that can communicate any standards, the proposal is not exclusive to these evolving standards
* Anthony: we could add comment field for folks to describe the url.
* Jeff: perhaps the "tag" looking suggestions for comments was taking it too far. Just wanted to enable an implementer for the comments field to describe the context of the type.
* Thomas: free form comments might not be helpful if you have to parse them; Dick agrees
* Dick: this is a consensus effort. This group will decide what we put on paper
* Jeff: noticing inconsistency in which standards we are supporting. comments field with url is most lightweight. If we go with the four that have been selected, concerned that someone who goes to implement this spec will use a different type than another person describing the same information.
* Anthony: we will likely need to revise original proposal from 2.3 anyway. Let's choose something and get feedback for 2.3.1.
* Thomas: minimum types are a must have from what I've seen in the community.
* Rose: strong preference for `url` vs `web` as one of the default options. Consensus from the group to use `url`.
* `url` definiton: "web page related to the vulberability of unspecified kind"
  * Dick: could this be an API call? Propose "link returns a security related artifact interpreted by the end user'
  * Proposed definiton: "A reference to related security information of unspecified type"
* Jeff: Advisory vs disclosure: if purpose is to articulate cyclonedx document, vdr or csaf document, then not sure disclosure is the appropriate term to link to that type of document.
* Dick: we need to provide some specific vulberability disclosure reporting for the NTIA executive order.
* Jeff: EO does not require that vulnerability reporting is tied to an SBOM, they are separate requirements; wrt SPDX v2.3 changes, advisory and url could convey the same information OR we could use status.
* Dick: vulnerability IS required
  * Reference: [Vulnerability Disclosure reporting is indeed required by Executive Order 14028](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/05/17/2021-10460/improving-the-nations-cybersecurity#p-72) (viii)
* Karsten: Advisory is actions to take to mitigate vulberability (recipe to resolve what the disclosures are). Disclosure is the list of vulnerabilities (discloses what they are).
* Jeff: as an industry, these terms are overloaded so hesitant to say the SPDX should standardize which terms are used and the nuances of them.
* Karsten: objects to this. We can make a choice - the EO defines the language and we need a starting point.
* Dick: There are implications with each, if we look at the online validation tool, it will need to validate these ext reference objects and that it is a valid type
* Jeff: using ISO terms we might get closer to a consensus so we are not introducing ambiguity with overloaded terms
* Dick: Cdx VEX is a good example - it can be issued in response to vulnnerability being reported but you can also take the other position - can issue a cdx VEX that is product centric with list of vulnerablities in product. Advisory is vulnerability specific. Disclosure is tied to a specific product.
* Anthony: Advisory tends to come from a vendor; but I may want to know the vuln status of a product which uses components from muliple vendors, so I think we need two terms
* From: ISO 29147 standard:  Disclosure - act of initially providing vulnerability  information to a party that was not believed to be previously aware  Advisory - document or message that provides vulnerability information intended to reduce risk. An advisory is meant to inform users or other stakeholders about a vulnerability including, if possible, how to identify and remediate vulnerable systems.
* Jeff: if we use the term VEX perhaps we get around this confusion?
  * Karsten: We should use semantic definitions instead of standards (Rose +1)
* Karsten: use advisory and disclosure and see how it develops. Do not have definitions but we should provide definitions with references to the different standards we see as evidence
* Rose: propose 3 hour deep dive call next week to agree on the minimum type definitions (disclosure, advisory, fix, url). Once we have a definition we can present it to the tech team. Deep dive will help us meet the 2.3 end of April deadline.
  * Thomas will send a doodle poll
