# SPDX Defects Team meeting - 8th June 2022

## Attendees
* Rose Judge
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Henk Birkholz

## Agenda
* Approval of [meeting minutes](https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/184) from last week

## Notes
### Approval of meeting minutes
* Approved; Thomas will merge

### Miscellaneous
* Rose wrote up the text for the community survey that we are sending out. The survey aims to answer the question "Who will be using/consuming SPDX 3.0 Defects profile and for what scenarios do they want to use it?"
  * Kate will create official survey and tweet it out from SPDX account
* Thomas, Rose and Henk worked on wording for the survey/questionnaire.
* Decided to not discuss anything else given RSAC conflict and low attendance.
