# SPDX Defects Team meeting - 15th June 2022

## Attendees
* Thomas Steenbergen
* William Cox
* Rose Judge
* Henk Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* Anthony Harrison

## Agenda
* Approval of [meeting minutes](https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/186) from last week
* Should we add support for the NIST SBOM and Vulnerability Disclosure Reporting linking document type?
  * https://www.nist.gov/itl/executive-order-14028-improving-nations-cybersecurity/software-security-supply-chains-software-1
  * Via comment on https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/184
* Defects survey link is available:  https://forms.gle/B4rZW2BjCxEwfq4z7

## Notes
### Approval of meeting minutes
* Approved and merged

### Inclusion of NIST VDR in Appendix G
* NIST has invented this term called VDR but it's not clear what this term is exactly.
* What is the definition of this document and how to meet it?
* We need to answer this before we include something in the spec.
* Don't want to include examples from single tools, would prefer from working groups or governing bodies. SPDX is not designed to endorse specific tools.
* Jeff will followup in the NIST community for clarification and try  to schedule a call with Dick for further clarification.

### Defects survey is available
* Rose pinged Kate to tweet it out from the SPDX account. Tweet was sent: https://twitter.com/SPDXTeam/status/1537148199168880643
* Please distribute to your networks to get as much feedback as possible

### Continue 3.0 specification work
* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qUgIbQbR3veBzT48XzUVZDddBtvjj05ibNxI1dzdRKw/edit#heading=h.gzkf9en0y7tu
* Scenario 2:
    * How to ship CycloneDX (or other standards) inside of SPDX file?
    * Thomas: I had an idea to base64 safe url encode other standards in wrapper with metadata. You could then wrap a base64 encode a CycloneDX XML file in SPDX JSON with metadata wrapper saying base64
    * Package SBOM that links to defects SBOM and the defects SBOM/vulnerability SBOM has bundles/containers for holding information (two different files). Package SBOM is static, vulnerability SBOM is not. I would have an SPDX document where I would embed CDX/CSAF files in base64. The defects SBOM could talk about an SPDXID in the package SBOM.
    * Thomas: Package SBOM may have a relationship to a pointer where defects SBOMs can be found. That location would be static but the documents contained at that location might change.
    * Anthony: I like the relationship aspect of the proposal.
    * Jeff: we will have people that need to link in both directions (package to defects SBOM and vice versa).
    * Thomas: linking with relationships; we need some sort of wrapper or written ID. Since it's all SPDX, you can link from package SBOM to defects SBOM as standard SPDX linking between different elements.
 * Thomas: do we want to have some type of "valid until date" field? This is in 2.3 so not entirely new. We would just need to introduce the metadata field and wrapper container.
    * Rose: is this per document or per element?
    * Thomas: We would have an SPDX document that identifies profile in the main document. Inside the elements would all be defects elements which are the wrappers. The expiration date would be per element.
* Rose: Is a defect element a document that talks about multiple packages/files or just one package/file?
* Thomas: you could do a cycloneDX file about the whole product but you could also do the same thing with just one package.
* Next steps: write out an example document like we did for Annex G; then open up the document for comment.
* We must understand the canonicalized serialization of an element from other working groups
* Next week we can try to articulate this in JSON format. UML or some sort of diagram will be helpful.
