# SPDX Defects Team meeting - 29th June 2022

## Attendees
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Jeff Schutt
* Rose Judge
* Bob Martin
* Karsten Klein
* William Cox
* Dick Brooks

## Agenda
* Approval of [meeting minutes](https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/192) from last week
* Example of using CSAF to produce VEX alongside SPDX
  * Decide on Appendix G Examples from mailing list
* Discuss SPDX 3.0 Defects example
* Example dashboards and reports to support vulnerability assessment, monitoring and reporting use cases

## Notes

### Approval of meeting minutes
* https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/192 Approved and merged

### Example of using CSAF to produce VEX alongside SPDX
* Jeff: Talked to folks in PSIRT and looked at ISO standards
  * Disclosure: act of initially providing vulnerability information to a party that was not believed to be previously aware (Done by "Report finder" actor)
  * Advisory: the document or message that provides vulnerabiliy information intended to reduce risk
* VEX Usage scenario:
  * Vulnerability disclosure: publish advisory to vendor
  * Vulnerability management: vendor receives advisory; determines applicability (is the SBOM component a match?); ivenstigate impact (determine exploitability, update component if necessary, update SBOM if necessary); document VEX status
* CSAF has flexibility to cover both situations above.
* Dick: Major goals of vulnerability disclosure include:
     * reducing risk by remediating vulnerabilities and informing users;
     * minimizing harm and cost associated with the disclosure;
     * providing users with sufficient information to evaluate risk due to vulnerabilities;
     * setting expectations to facilitate cooperative interaction and coordination among stakeholders.
     * The processes described in [IEC 29147:2018] aim to minimize risk, cost, and harm to all stakeholders. Due to the volume of reported vulnerabilities, lack of accurate and complete information, and other factors involved, it is not possible to create a single, fixed process that applies to every disclosure event.  See also https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:29147:ed-2:v1:en
* Thomas: need to be more clear what the disclsoure term means when we use it in our examples
* Karsten: I would also not limit the term to this first use case. We are talking about different levels of assets: individual component/module  and individual product (composed of component/modules)
* Dick: Agree Karsten, Advisories are vulnerability centric, vulnerability disclosure are product centric. Very different
* Bob: NIST is violating ISO guidance in this area. We can decide to not propogate the confusion or we can help confuse. We can only decide our course of action.
* Dick: NIST tool this directly out of IEC 29147:2018
* Jeff: I went to the standard and the concept of V/D/R are not put together in the standard. There are separate definitions for those
* Dick: can we just have the vote?
* Rose: a reminder that we are only trying to decide on adding an example to the appendix; there's no change to the spec so this shouldn't be a blocker for using the defects work in 2.3
* Consensus that we are trying to get to the same place, the disagreement is purely based on the wording.
* Rose: if everyone is OK going 30 mins over, let's open a google doc and brainstorm/settle this now? General agreement
  * Group was able to come to consensus, Rose opened a PR: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/733


### Discuss SPDX 3.0 Defects example
* Thomas created the following example: https://gist.github.com/tsteenbe/ea3c9ccf98a0130c5507ecf2e82b9398 to discuss in more detail our options to include security info in SPDX 3.0.
* Three ways to include security vulnerability information
* Three SPDX documents/blobs
  1) Linked security info: links to CVE via external reference (what's in 2.3 now with additional "relationships" section utilizing new relationships like "ADVISORY_FOR")
  2) Embedded Security Info: security information embedded in the SPDX doc; security document embedded in the document -- "format", "formatVersion", "data" fields. Captures vulnerability data - take vulnerability document and containerize it in the document. We would need to specify how to do this.
  3) Security Info: OSV inspired minimum elements -- You embed the security info yourself as its own element. The defects group would define these elements

* Jeff: if we embed another standard inside of ours, it's not likely to be used and consumed across vendors. Vote to focus on options 1 or 2. We could do this by creating flexibility by letting users create their own fields
* Rose/Thomas: this will be problematic.
* Rose: Tools won't be able to reliably consume SPDX documents if they don't know what fields they can expect
* Jeff: CDX you can define type/value fields themselves. If we can get to that level of flexibility then we don't have to define fields that won't get used or forget fields that might need to be there.
* Thomas: technically you can do this in 2.3 using RDF (but not other formats). If we have a flexible key/value format then it needs to come from core
* Jeff: we need flexibility so people want to adopt it
* Thomas: you can use the linking to link to any type of document
* Thomas: I like the linking because we already have support for that.
* Karsten: Two essential mechanisms here 1) Linking 2) Profiles - using profiles we could model additional data structures or standards with baseline minimum elements. From standard defects profile we support the linking but thoughtfully could offer other profiles with more information embedded.
* Thomas: the profiles could evolve at different paces
* Bob: An SPDX document that covers everything; if you only need to use a subset of it, then identify the profiles you will use. The profiles are subsets that make up SPDX but operationally you may say my tool supports SPDX 3.0 profiles core, software, defects and license.
* Jeff: you could imagine someone using defects profile 3.1 and license profile 3.0
* Bob: that would require an update to the entire spec to 3.1. another way to think about profiles is compliance points - what do you require someone to comply with or be able to understand?
* Thomas: let's drop the embedded scenario and just focus on the options 1 (linking) and 3 (minimum elements). Please provide feedback via email.


### Topics for next week
* Example dashboards and reports to support vulnerability assessment, monitoring and reporting use cases
