# SPDX Defects Team meeting - 22nd June 2022

## Attendees
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Rose Judge
* Anthony Harrison
* Dick Brooks
* William Cox
* Jeff Schutt
* Karsten Klein

## Agenda
* Approval of [meeting minutes](https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/191) from last week
* VDR Proposal for Annex G
* Please continue to promote the defects survey
* Continue work on SPDX 3.0

## Notes

### Approval of meeting minutes
* Approved

### Announcement: Defects Survey
* Please continue to promote the survey, only 3 responses so far
* https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeS9Q7ylztChlmlqrjk3dSfDQKk3-uXwV5JXOZGhIfZWwxGhg/viewform

### VDR Proposal for Annex G
* Jeff discussed with Dick about VDR and NIST standard
* Jeff discussed with NIST directly. The intent of what Dick/NIST is trying to accomplish is the same as what we have been discussing on this call. Differences of opinion come from naming and terminology.
  * Jeff expressed that VDR seems like a new term to NIST. NIST wants to be following industry standards
  * Jeff: There's two different ways that we can use vulnerability information alongside an SBOM:
      1) New vulnerability discovered and you want to create machine readable vulnerability information and articulate status as it relates to component(s) in one or more SBOM(s)
      2) When you go to publish/release software, want to describe third party sw components and at the same time provide explanation as to whether or not the third party components are vulnerable to a specific set of known CVEs that could affect those components.
  * This group has had lots of discussion with the second use case
  * VDR is designed to signify that this is a different place in the vuln management lifecycle. More product centric than vulnerability centric
* In terms of intention, we are headed towards the same place. What is the role of the SPDX spec?
* One view: we should be enabling ability to link both ways (from vuln to products or software images to vulns).
* Jeff: Not sure we need separate language to articulate it (VEX could accomplish both) but Dick shares different view.
* Jeff: want to keep as aligned to existing standards instead of creating new terms that might spark confusion.
* Dick: having the ability at any time to ask a software vendor whats the vulnerability status right now of a product (changes over time) is important.
* Dick: the only difference of opinion is which particular language our standard uses to provide answers to above use cases.
* Dick: spoke with Thomas Schmidt (CSAF) about communicating advisory information but hasn't found examples of CSAF VEX which can answer the second use case (i.e. vulnerability status of each component).
* Dick: The VEX standard requires a vulnerability to be present in order to create a VEX. The issue is that if you want to communicate that a component does not have a vulnerability then you can't state anything about it in a VEX.
* CSAF VEX is silent on other components and whether they have vulnerabilities.
* Dick: Implicit vulnerability disclosure model covers use case #2.
* Jeff: In summary, if no known vulns at point of publishing then VEX cannot articulate that today.
* Dick: current approach is good -- we don't know what standards will come forward in the future.
* Karsten: this underlines the need to flesh out these use cases.
* Anthony: if I have a package that has several third party libraries, I would have a separate VEX document for each library?
* Dick: each component in the product is listed in the VDR and communicates if the component is vulnerable NOW (when the VDR is produced). If there are vulnerabilities, SW vendor has to communicate that it is not exploitable.
* Jeff: intent is the use case we are describing. NIST didn't want to use VEX because its a term that might go away in the future. They didn't want to define a term that describes everything everywhere because that starts to get in to compliance. Instead of focusing on VEX or VDR we need to clarify intent to communicate vulnerability information.
* Dick: somehow my name got associated with VDR and want to clarify that I did not invent this :) Comes out of NIST.
* Jeff: If you're not attached to the VDR term there might be other terms we can use to describe that maybe aligns better with existing terminology.
* Dick: I'm not married to the name
* Karsten: Let's focus less on the name/terminology and more on the use case.
* Jeff: there's an opportunity to articulate what scope we want to focus on within SPDX and what scope we should leave to other standards bodies. NIST doesn't want to be leading here. What should be in SPDX and what shouldn't? Probaby won't answer this today, but let's focus on these top two usage scenarios so we can get to more accuracy WRT to what the role of SPDX should be in SPDX 3.0.
* Anthony: are we saying the SBOM will have an external reference to another standards document (which may change)?
* Dick: in agreement
* Jeff: yes, we talked about that last week. also discussed how to contain information from these other standards. I know we're not focused on the name but do think we should align with the industry. Let's be careful about terms (also why I tend to shy away from VDR term).
  * The reporter is defined as the "finder" in the ISO.
* Karsten: sees two aspects with VDR. As a consumer I want to say my product has this component which is known to have this vuln (with link to VEX) and I made the following assessment of this vulnerability.
* Dick: what that advisory is is esentially an analysis of vulns that have been identified as opposed to VDR which is something a software vendor maintains on an ongoing basis to provide vuln status of a product.
* Jeff: what we can start to do is define what we need from other machine readable formats for us to be successful in utilizing that data alongside the other data we are providing.
* Dick: NIST is really methodical about the docs they release (i.e. collecting comments/feedback). They knew what they were doing when they used the VDR term.
* Jeff: There could be some politics going on but that's water under the bridge; we mostly need to focus on how to enable the clarity required moving forward.
* Dick: NIST was given responsibility to determine and define the implementation requirements for the recent EO.
* So what do we do about Appendix G? Do we add VDR to example?
* Some suggestions from the group about the email with wording that Dicks sent to the mailing list. We will take this offline to refine wording and Rose will open a PR.
* Dick: I have no objections to Jeff's proposal in the chat for the title of G.1.9 while retaining the original content as proposed. - "G.1.9 Linking to a SBOM vulnerability report for a Software Product (per NIST Executive Order 14028)"

### Continue work on SPDX 3.0
* Thomas created an SPDX 3.0 example to facilate discussion in this group how we can link to, embed or communicate very simply.
