SPDX Defects Team meeting Workshop - 20th April 2022

## Attendees
* VM Brasseur
* Karsten Klein
* Jeff Schutt
* Christian Long
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Rose Judge
* Anthony Harrison
* Bob Martin

## Agenda
* Approval of the [meeting minutes from last week](https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/145)
* Outcome of questions raised to SPDX tech meetings
* Next steps

## Notes
### Approval of the meeitng minutes of April 13th
* Approved. See https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/145

### Update on PR from last week
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/658
* Comments appreciated; Jeff has already reviewed/commented
* Some markdown issues on the PR - Thomas will fix but content of proposal is not affected
* CPE describes a product and version; nothing that points to CVEs. CVEs in the NVD have CPEs attached to them (not always).
* Henk: Why don't we have CPE as a persistent ID in this "security" list?
* When a vuln gets assigned a CVE ID, it usually does not have a CPE. It gets entered into NVD and NIST has to go assign and add CPEs (this does not happen instantly, or ever). 
* Henk: F2.3 - advisory would in theory also be a CVE.
* Jeff: https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-22965/cpes?expandCpeRanges=true
* Henk/Bob: good enough for 2.3
* Henk: other 3.0 work would include other types more specific than advisory?
* Jeff: Many different types we *can* define (these are all listed in the 2.x defects specification) but for 2.3 we are going to keep it simple 
* OK, Henk is satisfied :D

### Outcome of questions raised to SPDX tech
* Draft specification available for comments see https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/658
* [External repository identifiers guidance](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/development/v2.2.2/chapters/external-repository-identifiers.md) has locators for each field but security info fields are URLs for which regex makes no sense -- what to do?
* Where to place additional guidance for exchanging security info using SPDX - new annex or seperate doc?
* Thomas raised above questions in the SPDX tech call on Tuesday April 19th - https://spdx.swinslow.net/p/spdx-tech-minutes
  * Final conclusion was to add a "How to Annex" section for other work groups to provide additional guidance
  * Consensus from SPDX tech call: Leave the existing Annex F - create new Annex that can contain the additional security information
* Anthony: How does putting it in the spec Annex consider our concerns from last week wanting more agile change ability?
  * Thomas: for 2.3, this is the solution for high level information. For 3.0 we will do this differently.
* Rose: are we going to write the Security Annex during this call or is someone doing it outside of the call?
* Jeff: I think we can take some of the things we've already written 
* Thomas: two options: 1) working session (i.e. 2 hours with whole group) or 2) two or three people come up with a proposal and then we do the editing in this meeting.
  * Rose and Jeff: preference for option 1 - preferrably before Wednesday of next week so we can review next week
  * Thomas will send out a doodle
  * Maybe after the SPDX Tuesday call April 26th? 7:30PM CEST / 1:30 ET / 10:30 AM PST
    * Thomas will send out invite but we will also start now with the remaining 30 minutes of this meeting

### Brainstorm to write Security Annex
* Brainstorming and drafting happening in the [2.x Defects Specification](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A9lOwYrpVlmxBl_cEahZTMeo0gU6yDxkgSbx4I5K5v4/edit)
