# SPDX Defects Team Workshop - Feb 15, 2023
## Attendees
* Thomas Steenbergen
* Jeff Schutt
* Bob Martin
* William Cox
* Rose Judge
* Henk Birkholz

## Agenda
* Approve meeting minutes from last two meetings
* Continue to discuss defects model

## Notes
### Approve meeting minutes from last two meetings
* https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/277

### Continue to discuss defects model
* Thomas reviewed the model again and didn't find anything to change
* Henk stumbled upon  https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9116
* Thomas: What do people think about VDR maturity
* Bob: Lots of discussions, no single concept has emerged yet
* Thomas: Move VDR implementation post SPDX 3.0?
* Bob: If we don't move VDR I don't know what the next step would be?
* Henk: If we cut VDR what is left?
* Bob: Like VEX, VDR is still unclear
* Henk: We should still support pointing to VDR
* Thomas: Linking is still in
* Thomas: Use `securityAdvisory` for VDR
* Henk: Would prefer to have a taxomy we can build out securityAdvisory -> securityAdvisoryVDR / securityAdvisoryVEX
* Agreed to start writing the document from next week onwards, Thomas to ask William for the document template to use.
* Let's split the specification from the implementation e.g. have a specification and implementor/user guide which should enable us to provide more detailed guidance and iterated faster. Rose volunteered to start leading this effort in parallel with implementers working group
