## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart
  - Paul Madick
  - Dennis Clark
  - Steve Winslow
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Matija Suklje

## Agenda

1\) Discussed proposal for Google Summer of Code:
<https://wiki.spdx.org/view/GSOC/GSOC_ProjectIdeas#Add_New_License_Submital_Feature_to_Online_Tools>
and response to feedback Gary gave to a student interested in doing this
project as per email sent (also can be seen here:
<https://lists.spdx.org/pipermail/spdx-legal/2018-March/002497.html>

2\) Looked at PRs and Issues (new license/exception requests) for
pending 3.1 release

  - merged PR \# 614 and added new license: Linux-OpenIB PR \# 620
  - discussed new license request Issue \#619 - to be added, but needed
    to check itâ€™s not already on the list - confirmed it is not after
    call

<!-- end list -->

  - Next meeting: need to better nail down process for reviewing new
    license/exception requests. A few have been raised via Issues and
    gone unnoticed. Recommendation is to spend \~half of each legal call
    going through any new requests, so we are on a regular tick.
