## Attendees

  - Dennis Clark
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Aaron Williamson
  - Brad Edmondson

## Agenda

1\) GSoC update:

  - License Submittal project (for submitting a new license: go to URL
    and enter online form, submit and then that info gets sent to legal
    team and create a GH issue (but not PR) and create XML file) had
    follow-up meeting with Galo, Gary, Paul, Brad - everything that was
    discussed on last legal call will be picked up and included in plans
  - \* update general process that issue gets created first; then
    review; and only if going to add license to list does PR get
    created.
  - License XML editor project (online tool to enable easier editing on
    existing license XML files, for those who are not XML savvy, needs
    better name) - have student assigned, but still working out
    requirements, hopefully will join for next legal call on May 30th

2\) update to Wiki

  - have some “working pages” that need to be archived - where to put
    them?
      - create Archive page and move them there with explanation (like
        Decisions page - one of links there need to be moved). add note
        at top of each page that it's archived/not current, etc.
  - also create resources section on landing page for Fedora page and
    page with or-later table - consider adding other links to resources
    on website as well
  - move license under considerations page to Archive and add note that
    it’s now on Github

3\) issues and recent emails

  - Till’s email re: FreeRTOS exception update - will create issue and
    update file accordingly
  - Google patent grant: add to exception list? this is really an
    additional grant, but makes sense to add to list b/c of actual use
    (it is clearly meant to be added on to existing license) and updated
    explanation language for what is on the "exceptions" list provides
    some leeway here. We may go back to considering changing the name of
    the list to something more inclusive/less specific in future, like
    "License Modifiers" since "exception" does have some specific
    meaning and usage. but not going to decide that now.
      - ask Philippe if anyone else is using it re: Google and markup
  - WTFPL issue Daniel raised about using \* instead of spelling word
    out
      - word is spelled out in the actual license text which is what
        matters for matching purposes
      - we did discuss this early on and had made decision to represent
        it this way - what is need to change now?
      - to new users, does seem like it should be “call it as you see
        it” and this is off of that, it’s data
