## Attendees

  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Dennis Clark
  - John Horan
  - Steve Winslow
  - Brad Edmondson
  - Paul Madick

## Agenda

1\) license list tooling update from Gary -
<https://spdxtools.sourceauditor.com> - need legal team to test for some
time, then will move location and document as official workflow

  - did some testing and sharing of workflow on call (some "test" issues
    created as a result, ignore these in repo)
  - updated documentation for proposed workflow on call for a few
    things, see:
    <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S6nRuSD_KyprDaDGjTRg-kTAy-Cj42xbhT88aRU4Ssw/edit>
  - log issues at <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues> -
    use label, “required for release” for priority items that we need to
    have fixed before more general use

2\) Went through issues and PRs for 3.3 release (priority) and flagged
anything that we didn't get to for 3.4

  - Note: need help closing out the rest of 3.3 ASAP
  - focus for next call will be to deal with things already flagged for
    3.4 and also get on top of older issues, so we can deal with things
    in some order of submission going forward
