## SPDX FuSa Group Meeting - July 7, 2023

## Attendees
* Nicole Pappler
* Kate Stewart

## Notes

* Reviewed mappings of types of documents to artifacts
* Illustration of one source file may be used by multiple requirements added to set of illustrations
* Next up - illustrating how a dataset could be participating in a model safety issue.
* STPA - L1 - System;   L2 - Architecture;  L3 - Module/Code
* Relationships - no additional ones thought of for now
* Strictdoc - being looked at for generating this evidence.   Possibly invite Stanislav to meeting to review.
