# SPDX FuSa Group Meeting - August 5, 2022

## Attendees
* Artem Mygaiev
* Kate Stewart
* Nicole Pappler

## Agenda
* New Participants from ELISA project
* 2.3-rc1 window open, any last issues
* Work through Safety Case Evidence and identify relationships

## Notes
* Interest from ELISA systems working group, have added interested participants to mailing list.  Kate to take proposal forward to Steering Commitee, 
   * AI: Kate to get ok to formally start new special interest group on the topic for SPDX,  then set up meeting notes & mailing list.   DONE - Steering committed ok'd.   mail list at https://lists.spdx.org/g/spdx-fusa and this document for recording notes. 

* Fields we'll be drawing from for this release (and extending) are at https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3-RC1/package-information/ - please review and raise any concerns by 8/10 EOD.

* Working document for brainstorming at: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nGmvS8dPRJ0cKu24cIcjADJgfdUDTZekXETEAH-gdc4/edit#gid=449007315
   * AI: Artem to review working document and mark questions.

* Key concept to keep in mind:  Package in SPDX is a distributable grouping of artifacts,   File is a single artifact.

* Artem suggests aligning some of our terminology with IEC 12207.  He's done mapping in the past with the safety standards, and believe the definitions there will extend to what we're needing here.    Goal is to have new fields/relationships should align with this standardized terminology.   
    * AI:  Artem to look up prior analysis between 61508 and 12207 and share it for further discussion. 

* Reference Materials to be consulted:
  * https://www.linux.com/featured/sboms-supporting-safety-critical-software/
  * https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO/IEC_12207
  * AI:  Kate & Nicole to do homework before next meeting on 12207
