# SPDX FuSa Meeting 2024-06-28

## Attendees
* Steven Carbno
* Chuck Wolber
* Nicole Pappler
* Alfred Strauch
* Kate Stewart

## Agenda
* Cancel next week due to July 4th
* WIP Scribling version of the software/core profile for us
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZYLw8nUTNCRMKbKbwk5RJx-QetHYd2hY/view?usp=drive_link

## Notes
* Evidence fulfills Requirement. 
* Discussion on using relationship completeness (now manditory for profile)
* Look at using "contains", "expands to" for sub requirements, of a requirement set?
* Discussion of using bundle?   for now just have evidence contains other evidence for now. 
* Jar can contain marbles & nails, they don't have to be related. 
* Evidence types -  aim for general types - and in the description put the aerospace specific ones; etc. 
   * Demonstrate operation - Design Assurance level E.  
   * Consider demonstration vs. formal test.    Problems lurk.   Let's consider demonstration is an incomplete test. 
* Need to figure out how the "tested by" relationship should be used/positioned here as well. 
   * Source coded is "tested by" test code
   * Evidence "fulfils" requirement 
   * Demonstration in review & analysis.   Could be inspection. 
   * Demonstrate what have for design SBOM level?    demonstration should be linked up?
   * Demonstration would be effective for proven in prior use.  Heritage enables use in higher criticality environments. 
   * Test Generates Evidence. 
   * ?? Safety Testing that isn't a file. 
   * ?? Software profile already has things like testing, etc. How do we harmonize/reuse those as evidence? Just link those directly as a test case?
   * Consider that we may need a separate schema for each type of evidence. For example, a requirement "test" evidence type should probably be linked to a test case of some type to document the test case. Test cases may be automated or manual, etc. The same need would apply to review, inspection, analysis, etc. One could "set up and perform a review", so a review object should be created and then an evidence object could point to that review object.
* May require a "Testing Plan"/"requirements validation plan", object as an intermediate for data strorage and management.
