# SPDX FuSa Meeting 2024-04-24

## Attendees
* Nicole Pappler
* Stanislav, 
* Roberto, 
* Kate Stewart  
* Chuck Wolber

## Agenda
* Requirements Modeling:  States to articulate. 

## Notes
* From: Zephyr Requirements discussion - add a requirements State to indicate if a requirement
* DRAFT → CANDIDATE:   agreement on wording, and tracing is in progress in code & test bases.
* CANDIDATE → ACTIVE:  tracing has been merged for code, test, and UID becomes locked.
* ACTIVE → OBSOLETE:   use of the original UID in code & test has been removed;  likely replace by new UID.   original UID can not be reused.
* Safety Scope:  Requirement is ACTIVE and approved by Safety Architect & Manager as being in “Scope”.   There can be ACTIVE requirements with traceability that are not in “Scope” but do exist in the code base, and may be included in future “Scope” discussions.
* Higher level requirements can not transition out of DRAFT, until the lower level requirements become ACTIVE. This does not block User Needs and requirements being accepted as DRAFT, even if there is no implementation present at the moment
* Stan confirms that this does not conflict with how StrictDoc works
* The currently used StrictDo GRAMMAR uses the “Status” field for that.   DRAFT/CANDIDATE vs ACTIVE validation will need to differ, but is under consideration for the roadmap.   StrictDoc - DRAFT & ACTIVE - are supported
* Discussion of minimum property fields for a requirement:
  * Stanislav notes that starting point should be Mandatory:  UID, MID (Machine Identifier) ,  Title,  Statements,  Rationale, Status & Comment(s).   
* Optional: 
  * Version may need to be considered.
  * Tags specific to project (could handle safety scope,  product variants)
  * Constraints (ie. optional inclusion based on configuration, handles the "where")
* Standards:
  * Relationship Hierarchy?   Traceability between requirements.   https://app.diagrams.net/#G1ifyHrg9rfUBEQv6TehJfmex20cqhKHjQ#%7B%22pageId%22%3A%22aHfobFOrivnl3PwysGPs%22%7D
  * RequirementFor --> Refines/is_refined_by?
  * SpecificationFor --> hasSpecification
  * DesignFor --> designs/is_designed_by
  * ImplementationOf -> Implements/is_implemented_by
  * Verifies/is_verified_by (verification methods are: Review, Analysis, Inspection, Test)
  * EvidenceFor --> substantiates/is_substantiated_by
* Four possible styles:
    *_FOR
    * Verb (refines, implements)
    * has...
    * ...Of
* https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0/model/Core/Vocabularies/RelationshipType/ needs to be reviewed for matching.
* Requirement.For -->.
* hasRequirement. (code & test pointing to requirement)
* and add in "refinesRequirement" needs to be introduced for requirment heirarchy
* Discussion of use case where spec is not in control - so want to link to location of spec.
* We'll need to bias towards enabling this use case
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/main/model%20Core.png
* For review/requirement arguementation we can use the "comment" field
* https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/main/model%20Security.png - models are a starting point to draw our own models for the safety profile
* The markdowns are the source of truth (e.g. at https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/main/model/Core/Classes/Artifact.md)
