# SPDX FuSa Meeting 2024-05-03

## Attendees
* Maximillian Huber
* Stanislav 
* Alfred
* Steven
* Kate

## Agenda
* Requirement States
* Project Metadata format compared to doxygen/tools/etc.   How far go to model.
    
## Notes
* Other stuff
   * Stanislav - coming up on a window on using SPDX integration.
   
* Propose Requrirement States Enumerations
   * Basic agreement to have DRAFT --> ACTIVE --> OBSOLETE;
   * Need for a 4th - CANDIDATE or COMPLETED or ?   
   * ACTIVE means that has power of downstream activities.   
   * Once requirement is ACTIVE - it is not changed. 
   * DELETED  is used in some practice have ID; but removed to not confuse.?
   * Need to put definitions.    Looking for 
   * Doors, Team Center, JAMA - need to check if they're using ISO
   * BACKLOG is also used in some cases.    DRAFT means needs agreement. 
   * DRAFT (BLACKLOG or WIP) --> ACTIVE (CANDIDATE or COMPLETED) --> OBSOLETE (DELETED or present)
  
   * ASK: NIcole/Pete/Greg - which ISO/IEC/IEEE standards on requirement management we should align with for requirement states? 

* Created presentation outline - create list of core common requirements
* UID - context with requirements, string aligned to reference name space.    New field?  String?  - requirementId
* MID (Machine Identifier) - originated from changelogs;  sets over part of time;   renaming UID, too limiting to merge in with Requirement states - so we need usage.   REQIF - meta field used for every entity.   Possibly SDPXID maps here. 
* Title  --> name
* Version --> related to a requirement that has same - see open fast trace.   --> requirementVersion   -- assessing impact of a clarified requirement needs to be considered. https://github.com/strictdoc-project/strictdoc/issues/1806
* Statements --> description.    Should be atomic.
* Rationale -->  new field (has strong context) - several may exist, but stored in one field. 
* Status -->. new field (see enumerations above)
Comment(s) --> comments ( there may be multiple comments)    note that comment is 0..1 today.   Possibly new field "Requirement History Comments".  - part of text being commented by review comment.    Think about large institutional reviews.   Annotations may be more appropriate here.   Every thread is attached to topic of discussion.    Annotations can be dedicated to different activities.   see:  https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0/model/Core/Vocabularies/AnnotationType/.  Currently just has "review" and "other"   Other can be used for "keyword: comment" to reflect level.  

* Theoretically - Composite Requirements - integrating into all the rest;  becomes problemattic.  If we need to model in SPDX,  Composite is one Element,  Children are their own elements,  and relationships are used to express the "composite nature".  This is an opportunity, but out of scope for first modeling exercise.   Consider when we revisit using "Contains" - relationship type. 

Sandbox for model diagramming.: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1o4O8H019INzsdHD8IqkezNm77v3UDocFclbo4TmFd0M/edit#slide=id.g2d217b60987_0_6

Next meeting cancelled (Kate & Nicole both out):  following meeting on 5-20
