# SPDX FuSa Meeting 2024-08-09
## Attendees
* Steven Carbno
* Nicole Pappler
* Chuck Wolber
* Alfred Strauch
* Ryan Brooks
* Nikhil Kumar
* Kate Stewart

##Agenda
- Continue discussion of modeling

## Notes
   - Discussion of how should roles around a relationship be modeled. 
  - Should we handle roles as relationships?  "fromRole:"   "toRole:"   for a single instance of a relationship.  Additional optional in relationship class. 
  - Action may let us model this in part?   Artifacts are event at point in time. 
  - Challenge with action is scope of issue - how deep to go with concept due to level of abstraction it supports.
  - Role acts as definer. 
  - Originated/Supplied by --> may be better handled by a role of relationship to action?
  - Participant is performing a given a role in a relationship,  and may be performing a different role.

- Should roles be enumerations or strings?    ideally enumeration. 
   - should be more than for persons,  ie. program doing action. 
   - For example test is verifier. 
   - Further characterizing the metamodel to allow more details to be unambiguously defined.
   - Consider "RoleScopedRelationship" class with the "fromRole" & "toRole" properties.    
         - Consider fromRole/toRole as another classes with additional properties.   Beyond enumeration.
   - Element collection is a more general case of this specific concept. 
   - How should we look at constraining a role - 
      - atomic;  characterize as learn about,  some 
  - Should the realtionship type constraint the roles that can be used?  Likely yes.
