# SPDX FuSa Group Meeting - May 19, 2023

## Attendees
* Nicole Pappler
* Maximillian Huber
* Kate Stewart
* Molly O'Brian

## Notes
* Introduction from Molly - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sHLACu5i9ss
* Kate Reviewed Requirement Traceability from OSS NA talk: 
* Nicole showed start of her work at: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1H5WJonJYRsn-FekY5GTvCadES3dO6a66GqMf-iiTJec/edit#slide=id.g212ad9e9441_1_0 for OpenAPs
