Sept 15, 2015

## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart
  - Bill Schineller
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Hassib Khanafer
  - Matt Germonprez
  - Mark Gisi
  - Michael Herzog

## External Identifiers

External Identifiers proposal for discussion:
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RpIFg41LdD6CKcw2FyJw1G5fpaEK6Z-XFM-66JUc8Jo/edit>

:\* title agreed to be “External Identifiers” - drop Packages & Versions
(although all agree version information is important to capture, want to
have broader reach)\>

:\* general agreement that Appendix approach is way we want to go.

::\* want to have separate section for “security reference” to make easy
to find/marketing purposes.

::\* software package management systems (Group Artifact Version) and
software distributions sections consider to combine to "Package Managers
and Code Repositories" for next meeting.

::\* how handle other external databases?

:::\* space for cross links to other tools (like Open Hub, Proprietary
tools)

:::\* github example - where does this fit? (reason for merging package
managers & code repositories to one section"

:\* Criteria for adding to appendix:

::\* We get agreement from project on data format, if it doesn’t have a
formalized version already documented. Like feedback we've just gotten
from Debian which needs to be included in next draft.

::\* Tables in Appendix to be reformatted a bit, so better ties up to
text, Bill to work on for next meeting.

:\* Open Questions:

::\* Which section does External Identifiers live? likely in Package
level (discuss usecase with FIle, and make sure ok to refer to as
External Package).

::\* Will it work for Financial Services Applications examples - looking
to build on CPEs with External Packages. BOM with CPEs. External
Packages proposal.
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/11kjtrzuZVKlbWIjaEq7bbZPA_cT55eLOOxpnnQ_rghU/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs>

Next week, revisit external IDs and External Packages - does the use
case work. Bill to make changes to External Identifiers proposal prior
to meeting.

Reminder please sign up for: Supply chain workshop on October 8 in
Dublin. (Stefano and Uday).
<http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/linuxcon-europe/extend-the-experience/supply-chain-summit>

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
