  - Attendance: 10
  - Minutes of Feb meeting approved
  - Lead by Phil Odence

## Biz Team Report - Jack (unable to attend, but provided written summary)

  - Agenda is fixed for Linux Collab and posted on the SPDX web site. LF
    will publish as well.
  - Tech Report Framework is almost complete. Will be ready to go by
    Collab.
  - We have a new co-chair, Mikael Söderberg from Pelagicore
  - We are looking at documenting an SPDX ecosystem and generating
    vertical specific whitepapers on using SPDX.

## Legal Team Report - Jilayne

  - Calendar Invite
      - Some issues with old ones; light attendance at last meeting as a
        consequence
      - Please delete. Everyone on the LT should have a new one from
        Mike Dolan.
  - Fedora List
      - Still pushing to get through by CollabSummit
      - Goal is to cover as much as possible of the Fedora "good list"
        on SPDX License List
      - Jilayne doing lots of work herself; appreciating any help.
  - CollabSummit- Focus for legal meeting with be on the expression
    language.

## Tech Team Report - Gary

  - Two main threads of late:
      - Applying real examples to the 2.0 model
      - Working out how to upgrade Tag Value format to handle new model
          - Sorting through three proposals: Extending current approach,
            JSON, RDF
  - Model
      - There had been two models, one more evolutionary, one more
        revolutionary
      - Now focused on one based on the more evolutionary approach.
      - Tech team will present model at the next General Meeting, April
        3

## Cross Functional Issues – Phil

  - OSI Collaboration Update
      - We have had some interaction, but have not yet set up a joint
        meeting
  - 2.0 Language on SPDX.org
      - No feedback
      - Need to review post CollabSummit
  - [License Expression
    Syntax](Legal_Team/License_Expression_Review_1 "wikilink") - MarkG
      - One more meeting planned prior to CollabSummit
      - Aiming for draft and examples for face to face discussion
      - Hoping for closure at CollabSummit

## Attendees

  - Phil Odence, Black Duck
  - Scott Sterling, Palamida
  - Pierre Lapointe, nexB
  - Kirsten Newcomer, Black Duck
  - Jilanyne Lovejoy, ARM
  - Mike Dolan, Linux Foundation
  - Mark Gisi, Wind River
  - Mary Hardy, Qualcomm
  - Gary O'Neill, Source Auditor
  - Tom Incorvia, MicroFocus

[Minutes](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
