June 16, 2020

## Attendees

  - Kate Stewart
  - Jim Hutchison
  - Thomas Steenbergen
  - Rose Judge
  - Nisha Kumar
  - Peter Shin
  - Steve Winslow
  - Gary O’Neall

Topics: Update on 2.2.1 GSoC SPDX Tools

## SPDX 2.2.1

  - Spec available at <https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2-draft/>
  - Kate gave a quick overview of the changes made so far
  - Mostly renumbering, reformatting to ISO specs
  - A lot of external references were broken – changed to local
    references
  - All – Please review the 2.2.1 spec and open issues for any problems
    found
  - Overall structure is now in place – we can start basing our 3.0 work
    on the 2.2.1 work

## GSoC

  - coding continues in Summer of Code.
  - Python expertise - active request for reviews. \*\* more bandwidth
    needed.
      - Kate will provide Daniel Beard intro to Philippe ang Gary to
        possibly help with the Python libraries
  - Rohit, Alexios, Gary - mentors for Community Bridge.

## Serialization Formats

  - non normative changes to sample/examples for bugs in 2.2
  - Serialization formats outside of RDF/XML;
  - some different assumptions were being made.
  - Better to document this in the specification itself.
  - Approach and assumptions being made - examples applying.
  - Serialization examples and principles.
  - Bugs ok in 2.2.1 & enhancements \`
  - Goal - use native format of JSON & YAML when possible
      - same vocabulary across all.
      - Exact case and spelling may differ due to different formats.
      - Stem of term would be consistent.
      - UML object model is abstract and not specific to any format.
      - Want JSON to look like “JSON” not something else.
  - Nisha: concern over incompatiblity with tool compatibility with
    different cases.
      - JSON allows plural forms on some array terms.
      - Singular to plural are not easy to code
      - Consistent casing structure.
      - Any tools that support more than one serialization format will
        have to deal with this.
      - Nisha: Question on the overall model.
          - Using RDF/XML document as source, but Alexios wrote a
            translator to standard OMG UML.
          - TODO: Annex C needs to be updated from RDF —\> UML Object
            Model; and include the diagram from Alexios.

<https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/development/v2.2.1/ontology/SPDX-2.2-Simplified.png>

  - Agreed on the following guiding principles for the different
    serialization formats
      - Consistent vocabulary across format
      - Consistent object model across formats (where feasible)
      - Serialization formats are optimized to for the formats (e.g.
        JSON will look natural to someone familiar with JSON)
  - We will document the different serialization formats in the spec in
    3.0 in a similar fashion to tag/value and RDF/XML
  - We will add JSON and YAML examples to 2.2.1 or a 2.2.2 version of
    the spec depending on timing

## Next Week’s Agenda

  - June 23 - Security - Thomas “unblock thomas"
  - June 30 - Cancelled.
  - July 7 - BASE 3.0 - William
  - July 14 - Licensing Profile - Steve

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
