# SPDX Tech Team Minutes, October 27, 2020

## Attending
* William Bartholomew
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* Jim Hutchison
* Nisha Kumar
* Gary O'Neall
* Peter Shin
* Kate Stewart
* Santiago Torres-Arias
* Steve Winslow

## Agenda

* Continue discussion of base model
* Discussion of linkage and relationships

## Minutes

### Base Model Discussion

* Relationships - should they be an SPDX Element?
  * Benefits: Can attach identities and other elements
  * Downside: Requires SPDX ID which may require more complex serialization representation for tag/value
  * How would it handle multiple in other XML/RDF/etc.
  * Attaching IDs to relationships - enables other properties.
  * If you think it needs to be reused, then assign SPDX ID? - not sure
  * Can the Relationship SPDX ID be deterministically computed? - possibly nice as fall back.
    * Anonymous element in someone else's document might enable this.
    * "Default ID"?   Some tools may want to put human readable, but constructed default if someone doesn't.
    * Tern is generating ids anyway,  so this approach may make sense.  Hash of string is id.
    * RDF has anonymous ids today (not shared outside document) - change would need to be translated to be able to referenced outside via URIs.
    * XML - not sure?  Need to find someone who can weigh in here on this.
    * Json: adding a single field shouldn't affect the model much.
  * Generating the ID: producer (not hard to generate),  consumer (easier to read in an additional field).
  * Something like SPDXRef: SPDXID:  RefA RELEATIONSHIP_TYPE RefB.
  * Once its a relationship, then can reference the relationship inside.
Will elevate all relationships to be a "thing".    Can use to denote one relationship generated anothers, etc.   We need to be careful here.
  * Suggestion that we describe a default algorithm for generating an ID
  * consider having SPDX IDs generated even wider than relationships?   Could help with comparisons.
  Gary's suggestion: adding algorithm to TagValue which will be used to generate an ID if it is not explicitly mentioned in the document (Rather than enforcing an algorithm for all the languages and tools).
  Many to Many?   Can be verbose, to list all of the things a specific package depends on.
  * Proposal is to extend it as from many to many.    A, B relationship C, D, F.
  * Possibly a relationship object use case actuall,    File 1 distributed with File 2 & File 3.
  * Use Case:  NPM package has 50 dependencies.   Preference for 1 to many.   Many to many is ?
  * Conclusions:
    * General consensus on 1 to many
    * Some reservations on many to many

## Relationship and Linkage discussion
  * Nisha: instead of having 2 way relationships, why not just pick one? perspective of simplist element.  Steve supports.
   * Concern expressed is not all relationships, the reverse makes sense, is it automatically reflective? How handle none/noassertion?  From and To matter.
   * Implicit taxonomy - enough semantic meaning has directional. Should linking taxonomy make it closer?  Convey meaning and write meaning, but be flixable for policy.
    * have relationshp types described in the base. Define your own, constraint them, might be in linking profile.
    * how many steps down the tree we go?    Pure relationship in base, and material in profile.
    * 3T looking at only 5 or 6 relationships,  some directional, some not.   Add more columnts about directional or not?  Inverse always true?   Remove duplication.   Making relationships be objects.
    * Adding relationships to existing things?    Serializing considerations?    How handle NONE & NOASSERTION.
    * Gary shared link to prior work on consolidated Relationship Types https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eKIj0u32-0FomkJspjAMkUmq2SwEH6sG/view?usp=sharing
    * Peter has documented Nisha's containers use case as well:
          https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vGifE7smt53ZaJPjXShl4lICGejnE3w_FE-Qm0AxwWc/edit?usp=sharing
    * DIstribution relationship discussion:
     * Files have to be together,  is this a sibling dependency?   Listing set as an abstract package?    Assumptions about packages can be broken at any point.   May not be contained, but could be deployed relationship.   Can be deployed, but not built together.
     *Discussed diagram of package with 3 files in it, and where documents make sense in context of relationships.    This may need to be pulled up into package level document.   Directionality implication here.
     * AI: Steve to express diagram in 2.2,  use as sounding board.


## Model comments
  * Rishabh points out that comment field is repeated in relationship and should be abstracted if we make it a subclass of element.
