March 31, 2020

## Attendees

  - Santiago Torres Arias
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Jim Hutchinson
  - Peter Shin
  - Alexios Zavras
  - Andrea Denisse Gomez (new)
  - Nisha Kumar
  - Steve Winsolw
  - William Bartholmew
  - Kate Stewart
  - Vicfred Petrelli
  - Jiyun Kang

## 3.0

  - Santiago provide overview of linking profile being proposed for 3.0

Recording of the presentation can be found at
<https://zoom.us/rec/share/-90lL_Lo03hOfLPv2QbZAa8kH5j4X6a8hihKqaBczEpJTJHaMzbGpfUcPBpgfz7y>

  - 8 locations in abstract supply chain can be compromised
  - Looking for people to participate in work group on this.
  - Nisha: what's the difference between relationships vs. links?
      - Looking for these artifacts come from build stage.
  - Alexios: Multiple inputs/outputs - love this idea of documenting
    what is happening, very much in favor of having this information.
    Only objection with name "linking profile" - points to something
    else.
      - Santiago receptive for changing the name if we can find a better
        idea.
  - Gary: The way I'm thinking about it is relationships are static -
    the state how the artifacts are related at the time the SPDX
    document is created. Links are more dynamic, they describe an action
    taken which probably creates a relationship - including the who and
    how in addition to the "what" of the relationship.
  - Nisha Kumar: Post build state vs build time state?
  - Steve Winslow:
  - I think that's right, Gary. A relationship just describes "this
    thing is this way", e.g. "Package A depends on Package B". A Link
    goes further to assert who does what, e.g. "I added Package B as a
    dependency for Package A, I got B's source code and built it"
  - Peter Shin: Which words do you use to describe "link" in the in-toto
    process? Do you use the word, "link" or multiple words?
  - Gary - very interested in participating in these discussions, and
    interested to do some object modeling here. Linking relating to
    relationships.
  - \- Santiago interested in making this an SPDX native concept.
    Possibly extend relationships.
  - Explicit Interest in making this a focus of 3.0 from: Santiago,
    WIlliam, Gary, Rose, Nitsha, Alexios, Kate, Steve
      - Decision to work on spdx-tech mail list. Then possibly dedicate
        some weekly call.

## 2.2 issues

  - <https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/97>
  - Other issues recorded in Github

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
