SPDX Tech Team Minutes, December 01, 2020

## Attending
* Alexios Zavras
* Jorge Rodriguez-Moreno (new participant from Continental)
* Gary O'Neall
* Nisha Kumar
* Peter Shin
* Kate Stewart
* Steve Winslow
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* William Bartholomew
* Rose Judge

## Agenda
*  Tools - slow builds.
*  Base - divide and conquer - William

## Minutes

* Tools - slow builds
* Need help from someone comfortable with Makefiles.
* Alexios recommends moving to github actions.
* License List - Gary/Steve - TravisCI slowing down unpaid builds
   * William willing to help move over to github actions.    +1's from Gary, Steve, Jorge
   * see LicenseListXML issue - https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML/issues/1085
* Online tools are now live at:  tools.spdx.org;  please file issues.
* Is there a REST API?   Link to the same: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools#how-to-use-api . Jorge willing to help with doc

* OCS - Presentation on "SPDX 3.0 - extending beyond license compliance".  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xWqxIhsvDgHJA4LrOJ8TnCzSIjuJMKTkBTKrLHFAeoM
    * presented at OCS yesterday by Steve & Kate.   Positive feedback.   Looking for input on Usage.


* Base - divide and conquer - William
   * Groupings:
       * Artifact (Package, File, Snippet)
       * Identity along with {Person, Organization, Tool}
       * Annotation is standalone - need to review if want to consider as Element.
        * {Element,  Doc, Relationship, External Doc} - Linkage?  - Nisha/Rose
        * Integrity & Hash
        * External Reference and Annotation.

* from https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/master/tech/2020/2020-11-03.md:   Annotation - should they be a sub-class of SpdxElement? 
         * Kate: probably not. We can probably continue with the current version and circle back if we find a good use case for it.
        * Annotation is way of extending - Jorge will provide feedback if what have.


* Nisha: showed demo of python generation of model/diagram.
   * Annotations is area she wasn't sure about, as she was working through Integrity.
   * Alexios:  modeling types of object needed.
   * Gary: How do we want to document the model - 3 formats being used, and generating into more formats,  inconsistencies between manual versions and generated.   Structuring a discussion - md inconsistent with OWL.
     * Don't want to exclude people who can't code
     * OWL may be intimidationg
     * ISO Submission is going to be required eventually.

* Verification code for package vs. relationship.
   * Makes sense to be part of Integrity method
   * Model should have "method"
   * Package Verification Code - want to parameter for Hash (beyond SHA1)
   * We have to have an SPDX defined integrity method for subset of artifacts.
   * For Package,  expect to have PVC, so consumer to know what they have to valideate
   * Optional - other methods defined outside spec?    Agree.

* Any reason why External Document Ref, doesn't inherit from External Ref.
   * Need to rename - its confusing.    External Ref.
   * ExternalDocumentRef --> SPDXDocumentRef?   May be clearer.

* Relationship Type is Enum,  not sure if we want to make extensible or not.
    * May be strings, not just integers.
    * Steve in favor of it being extensible.
    * Type has a semantic meaning, to know about it to reason about it.
    * Relationship type as a mutuable set of strings?   Set defined in spec.
    * Consideration of being extensible by others.

## Upcoming
* 8 - Gary - How we are going to express the 3.0 specification  - "source of truth"  (from today's discussion);  Volunteers for the grouping.   All: write down criteria for single source of truth.  What are alternatives.  before meeting
* 15 - Steve - Licensing profile -- if the "format for spec" discussion is sufficiently crystallized
* 22 - Cancelled.
* 29 - Cancelled.
* 2021:
    * Kate - Usage profile continue discussion (ValidUntil/amends);  Initial proposal for Build profile
    * Thomas?  - Security profile??
