SPDX Tech Team Minutes, November 17, 2020

## Attending
* Rishabh Bhatnagar
* Nisha Kumar
* Gary O'Neall
* Aditi Pawaskar
* Peter Shin
* Kate Stewart
* Steve Winslow
* Alexios Zavras

## Agenda

* Gary - Online tools - did they go live,  any issues.
* Nisha - discussion of "enhanced relationships" and name of that profile.
* William/Kate  - section writeup divide & conquer - call for volunteers.

## Minutes

* Check did release will go live Nov. 14?   (test was at  http://52.32.53.255/app/)
* didn't go live,  Targetting to get done - setting up SSL configuration & migrated DB.
* NTIA Healthcare PoC looking to use.
* focused on deploying license list which involves contribution by a GSoC student which enables us to detect and remove dead links.
* Libraries
  * Go libraries making forward progress,   Rishabh's summer GSoC work integrated in now.
  * Python libraries - community bridge work is merged.  2.2 Relationships now supported.   Needs to be be refactored to be more modular.


### Linking discussion
* Draft discussion document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wAtBdkF87Xgk5lFrHF-jlaZrIbWX2gHDb9SO1B-wunw/edit#heading=h.f98jjhpv1tur
* Open Question:  having relationships in base, but relationship profile on its own may be confusing?
  * Discussion ensued arriving around want to keep basic relationships (CONTAINS, DESCRIBES) stay in base, but more "enhanced relationships" go into their own profile - name is "TBD"  - targetting to share next week ideally.

* Relationship - today its a separate type in model.   Change to add as an element,   which will give it an SPDX id.
* Relationship __types__ are defined in the spec itself and are not SPDX elements / do not get an SPDX ID

In V1 of document -
Organization --> Identity

2 signatures
- signature of identity
- signature of relationship (SPDX element) -- integrity method

Should Attestation method,  org and role into signature?    Maybe just say its a digital signature method.

Do we want to have an attestation method in the base profile?   Do attestations fall in the domain of only relationships between artifacts.    Possibly it should be in base profile.

Attestestation may be appropriate at element?  attesting to element metadata.
- Example of relationship attestation - turned on build and release, so sources were used to create a binary.
- Example of artifact attestation - Verify artifact you download is produced by who you expect.

3 concepts:
- integrity of an element
- attestation of metadata of element
- attestation of process that generates the metadata  (artifact or relationship)

Attestation method to elements
* Identity:
* Role:   example licencing
* Signature:

Attesting to entire document or to specific IDs - both.   use SPDXID (which includes DOCUMENT)

Comment in the attestation?   May want to add information in free form way.
Attestation inherits from SPDXElelment so it gets comment & name.
Should there be a 0..n,  for multiple methods and signatures?   May be signed by many people.
High assurance,  having multiple signatures.    0..n attestations.   1..n attestation to signature.

AttestationMethod
Role --> Object module (not string)

Should SPDX have a relationship verification algorthim?
Possible idea from call - use hash of all the relationship endpoints in the XOR?   Do we need to have the relationship types?  Cardinal value of the relationship type.

Relationship type can inherit from SPDXElement

* Can the relationship "to" go to multiple elements,    yes.
* Can an attestation profile be represented entirely by an external document reference? yes.
  * Discussion:   how should it look.
  * Linkage: External Document Ref?    DocumentRef:SPDXRef...


Discussion:  Name?   Linkage has some support
Attestation is part of it.
Relationships may or may not have attestation
Let's call Linkage for now.

Some discussion of directional,  if its not in a RelationshipType object, it could impact tooling.

## Upcoming meetings:
* Thanksgiving week - skip meeting (24th November - Tech Call)
* Follow on from this week's topics.   Kate - Usage profile continue discussion (ValidUntil/amends);  Initial proposal for Build profile
* Steve - Licensing profile
* Thomas?  - Security profile??
