May 19, 2020

## Attendees

  - Jim Hutchison
  - Rex Jaeschke
  - GogginsS
  - John Mudge
  - Nisha Kumar
  - Steve Winslow
  - Kate Stewart
  - William Bartholomew
  - Gary O’Neall
  - Rose Judge
  - Takashi Ninjouji
  - Santiago Torres
  - Peter Shin
  - Vicky Brasseur
  - Thomas Steenbergen
  - Rishabh Bhatnagar

## SPDX 2.2

  - Question on how to submit new features beyond 2.2
      - Consensus to add issues in Github
  - SPDX 2.2 wrap up - status of .pdf generation, next steps
      - Kate & Gary - follow up, still some issues outstanding.

## SPDX 2.2.1

  - update from Rex
      - A new numbering scheme
      - An appendix will be added to translate from the old to new
        numbering
      - John gave an update on new format
  - Line breaks discussion
      - Thomas recommended line breaks be made post production rather
        than explicitly
      - Agreed to not add explicit line breaks
  - Discussion on changing Intent to Description
      - Agreed to change to Description
  - Possible issue with the word Example
      - May have to change to a different word such as sample
      - Thomas raised an issue with changing to sample
  - Embedded HTML in the examples may cause issues
      - Suggest removing the HTML except for anchors
      - May also be an issue with 3.0
  - Major issues have been resolved
  - Expect to have a list of remaining issues by the end of the week

## GSoC

  - Anisha, Rohit & Gary - had call, researching alternatives
  - Rishab, Steve & Gary - golang, discussion
  - Philip - Kate, Santiago & Philippe - pending
  - Tenjong - license cross ref, already engaging.
  - reasonable activitity on gitter.
  - Bringing back one of student proposals through community bridge,
    update June 1.

## Automation for the Spec

  - Level of Automation for 3.0
      - OWL document —\> Schema’s work —\> Sample code, etc.
      - Two sources of errors: tools doing translations, copy paste
        error
      - Can we look at automating the creation from everything from one
        source of record.
      - Having mark down be the source of record.
  - Automation Proposals:
  - Pick a source of record, everything else is automated from there.
      - Diagram - how can this work with markdown.
      - Possibly not include generated artifacts in repo.
      - Could be added into a github action to generate diagram. Not
        store in repo itself, since its generated.
      - Everytime PR, get new OWL document
      - William’s diagrams are already generated by plugin
      - Software generate example files, and then they are included in
        markdown.
  - Concern: How fragile are the tools?
      - Gary - will handcode in Java, specific to SPDX. Subsection &
        schemas. Tool dependency.
      - Thomas - Companies do this, but we need to make sure.
  - Sections will have to be very much tied to the formatting.
  - Breaking formatting may break build. PR requested via breaking
    build. More of burden for submitters.
  - Nisha, Kate, William, are a favor in trying this.
  - Gary looking for collaboration on the tools. Nisha & Rose willing to
    work with Python.
      - Gary ok to do it in Python, if Rose able to help out here.
        Separate Sync up in 2 or 3 weeks.
      - William ok mentor. Thomas ok to review.
  - Revisit in 3 weeks - status of tooling

## SPDX 3.0

  - How do we submit proposals for 3.0?
      - Use Github Issues
      - Proposal to add Github labels for the profiles
      - Add Tech Team review as a label to schedule a call
  - Annotations and/or Relationships have YAML samples for review
      - Kate will help with the examples
  - Suggest we start a mapping spreadsheet
      - Kate will start the sheet
  - Wait for 2.2.1 template completion from John
      - After template, William will create 3.0
  - Need a way to specify which profiles are in effect
      - Suggest adding a field to the base
      - Base is always listed, additional profiles are also listed
      - Defer versioning
  - Discussed if you can use fields from other profiles
      - OK to re-use fields from other profiles
      - Profiles define which fields are mandatory
      - To be further discussed

## Next Week’s Agenda

  - Thomas to lead discussion on Security profile

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
