## Attendees

  - Scott Lamons
  - Jilayne Lovejoy
  - Phil Odence
  - Mark Gisi
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Chuck Gadreaux
  - Michael Herzog
  - Jack Manbeck

## Agenda/Minutes

  - SPDX Forum follow-up
      - Scott received the list of folks who registered for the Forum
        from Kim.
      - Phil O prepared a follow up email that he will send (bcc:) to
        folks who pre-registered.
      - Might have been a few attendees who didn't pre-register. Scott
        will ask Steve if we can get a copy of the sign-up sheet and add
        those folks to the spreadsheet and follow-up email.
  - Outreach/Adoption
      - Communities
          - Jack is meeting with the Yacto project this morning
          - Scott is trying to setup some time with Jeremy Allison of
            the Samba project
      - Companies
      - Tools
  - SPDXv2 Discussion (what role should the business team play?)
      - Some good work on use cases but we seem to be lacking a higher
        level business strategy, direction, and roadmap.
      - What are the high level problems we're trying to address and how
        do we prioritize these and decide which ones to focus on in 2.0,
        3.0, ... e.g. upstream adoption or solving downstream problems
      - Can these be seperated? For example upstream adoption may not
        depend on new features and functionality in 2.0 (or maybe it
        does?? -- we're still early in the outreach process\!). Should
        2.0 be focused on solving the big downstream barriers to
        adoption by companies, thier suppliers, our their customers
      - Might make sense to circle back and confirm that everyone is
        still in sync with the high level vision and strategy originally
        layed out for SPDX (Phil to dig up some artifacts on that)
      - Micheal volunteered to get us started with a proposal or
        framework for how the business can help to uncover and/or
        clearify the strategy and prioriites for SPDX moving forward. He
        will circulate to the team next week and we will discuss further
        at our next meeting.
  - Web site
      - No update from web team
      - Scott will review bus team work on the new website to ID gaps
        prior to next meeting
  - Others Topics
      - Phil O reported that there is some emerging interest in SPDX
        from Japan and Korea
      - Some discussion about how to encourage participation for folks
        who can't attend during the normal business hours -- encourage
        more discussion/collaboration on the email list and website.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
