## Attendees

  - Mark Gisi
  - Phil Odence
  - Kim Weins
  - Chuck Gaudreaux
  - Gary O Neall
  - Scott Lamons
  - Jilayne Lovejoy

## Agenda

  - Web site
  - SPDX Forum
  - Collab Summit

## Web site

  - Mark Gisi, Gary and Phil O are done
  - Kim in progress
  - Jilayne needs to get someone on legal team to help
  - Not sure re tech section

## SPDX Forum: April 6

  - Registration
      - LF has put up test registration page. Kim and Phil to test.
      - Kim to add pages to the SPDX website with link to register
      - Once it's up, we'll notify people to register and invite others.
  - Agenda Discussion
      - We discussed the agenda based on feedback at the General
        Meeting. See added notes below in the agenda.
      - We will capture feedback throughout, but will also discuss that
        feedback in the interactive "What's Next" session
      - We also have tenatative speakers listed below
      - Consensus is that we want to cover 2.0, but don't want to get
        done rathole of arguing about details of how to implement
        specific features in 2.0. We will collect all feedback and feed
        that into the various workstreams
  - Updated Agenda
      - Stage Setting on OSS Compliance - 40 minutes
          - Stats, quotes, what are companies doing today, define the
            problem - Mark Radcliffe
      - Discussion: The Challenges of OSS Compliance Today 30 mins
          - Discussion at tables and then present info to the group
      - SPDX Primer: What is SPDX and How Can it Help - 40 mins
          - Phil and Kate
          - ***will include info on what is in current spec and
            highlights of 2.0 and info on involving OSS community***
      - End User Panel: How SPDX fits into a Corporate Compliance
        Program -- 1 hrs
          - Cisco, HP, WindRiver, maybe MicroFocus (Tom Incorvia?)
      - Getting Started with SPDX preso 40 minutes (Gary O Neall and
        Jilayne)
          - SPDX structure
          - Spreadsheet
          - License List
          - SPDX Tooling
          - '''''will include info on ''''***'2.0 that maybe relevant***
      - Discussion: Challenges and Approaches to Implementing SPDX - 30
        minutes
      - What's Next for SPDX - Interactive session - 30 minute
          - Preso on what's on the table and hot issues
          - Q\&A /Discussion
      - Invitation to paticipate in SPDX

## Collab Summit (April 3-5)

  - We will have an SPDX overview session (presented by Mark Gisi) as
    part of the legal track on Wednesday.
      - Legal track is being organized by Bradley Kuhn
  - We may get an opportunity to be part of the keynote (still TBD)
  - We will have a room all day Thursday for our face-to-face meetings
  - We are trying to get a smaller room for the tech team for a half day
    on Wed for the tech team. We're not sure if we will get this or not.
    If we do, it will be at the same time as the Legal track on
    Wednesday -- so you would have to choose between the legal track or
    the tech team meeting.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
