## Attendees

  - Scott Lamons
  - Mark Gisi
  - Gary O'Neall
  - Michael Herzog
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Steve Cropper (joined late)

## Agenda

Agenda topics for today's meeting (if you have others, please chime in)

  - Feedback on Mission/Vision
  - Business team charter
  - Website
  - Updates on FOSS project outreach
  - Linuxcon

## Feedback on Mission/Vision

  - No feedback received from version that Phil sent out from the last
    General Meeting.
  - Avoid words like "driving", "mrd", "requirements", there are
    different levels of requirements (e.g. high level, functional and
    non-functional requirements)
  - Keep in mind that SPDX is part of the LF open compliance program --
    and we need to dovetail into that -- Michael to reach out to
    Iberhim.

## Business team charter

(Jack and I have had some discussion on this and we want to share this
with the team)

  - Promote the adoption of SPDX (e.g. arranging speaking slots and
    speakers at FOSS events and conferences, outreach to FOSS projects)
  - Note, this is not the sole responsibility of the business team\!
  - Foster the development of tools to aid in the creation and
    management of SPDX documents.
  - Help to drive future versions of the spec -- gather feedback from
    stakeholders, share with the broader spdx team, help to prioritize
    the high level requirements.

Michael: What's the output deliverables here?

## Website

  - Jack wrapping up some pieces.
  - Need a list of conferences for 12/13 and then do some outreach to
    find speakers at each for SPDX

## Updates on FOSS project outreach

Gary/Jack -- outreach to Eclipse. Creating a template and plug-in for
creating SPDX.

  - Michael -- experience with Apache JMeter (hand generated license
    file was inaccurate)
  - May not be practical to assume that every file has a license. Can't
    base the system on that assumption. Mark -- that is a goal, best
    practice -- push the community in that direction.

## Linuxcon

The following was submitted for the business track...

Title: SPDX Celebrates It's First Birthday: Where have we been and where
are we going?

Abstract: The SPDX workgroup, operating under the Linux Foundation, has
created the Software Package Data Exchange (SPDX), a specification that
defines a standard format for communicating the components, copyrights,
licenses, and other important facts about a software package. Adoption
of SPDX will enable license compliance with minimal cost across the
software supply chain and help facilitate further adoption of open
source software. SPDX 1.0 was launched a year ago. This panel will
include representatives of the SPDX business, technical, and legal
working groups and provide an update on the current status of SPDX
including the recent release of version 1.1, the current state of
adoption, and a view of what's coming in the next release.

This presentation is targeted at all members of the software supply
chain from original developers to end users and we welcome your input.

Scott is working on getting SPDX a room at LinuxCon.

[Minutes](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
