 # SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-07-09

## Attendees

- Alexios Zavras
- Alfred Strauch
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Bob Martin
- Dick Brooks
- Gary O'Neall
- Ilans
- Jeff Licquia
- Joshua Watt
- Karsten Klein
- Kate Stewart
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Maximilian Huber
- Nisha Kumar
- Peter Monks
- Steven Carbno

## Agenda

- Progress on Tooling - Ilans
- Improve CI checks for bad extensions: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/88
- Moving informational annexes to new repo https://github.com/spdx/using/pull/1
- New annex on license matching https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/968
- Add package-url specification as an annex https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/969
- Update on spec production/publishing (Alexios)

## Notes

### Tooling

- Ilans giving demo of "SPDX Explorer" visual authoring tool,
  for reviewing the specification and generating examples.
- Showed how the red dot shows mandatory properties.
- Selection is set up to automatically fill in as much as possible.
- Everything is validated as RDF, and then translated to JSON.
- Joshua - have you run through validator?
  Discussion with Illans - must pass JSON schema and make sure it pass so that other tools can consume.
- Open Question:  CreationInfo - has createdBy Agent - loop.  It is intentional?    Yes, It is not a DAG.
- Open Question:  If another SBOM has same Creation Info can't use in one SBOM.
   - Use of External Map - From one SBOM to another - can use ExternalMap.
     Add property of element collection. Then add externalSpdxId.
     Then put the organization of the reference.
   - Referencing via ExternalMap.
   - SPDXID's are universally unique.   You can assume they are the same thing and replicate.   
   - Best practice is to reference with ExternalMap explicitly.
   - Currently the range for createdBy/suppliedBy is Agent.
     But it is possible that the Agent (Organization, Person) is exist elsewhere outside
     without being instantiated inside the current SBOM, so in the future is should be possible to use IRI.

### Issues/PRs

- github actions: Add check for bad extensions - No objections - merged
- Moving informational annexes to new repo (spdx/using) - Remove the SPDX Lite profile and can be merge
- New annex on license matching - Update branch
- Add package-url specification as an annex (Annex E) - Bob and Gary will put comments in the PR

### Update on spec production/publishing

- Alexios working on generation of .pdf that can be submitted to ISO.  Working with OMG to align with guidance.
- The same input we're generating for the website, will now be able to generate the .pdf as well.
- As soon as the workflow is ironed out, will pull in Jeff, to update the CI so that we can run.
- This is being done with LATEX,  and then its converted to mkdocs.
  This is what OMG is using right now to produce the documents.
  Standalone tool, but hopefully simple to implement.
- Want to decide how often we run this - probably on each release.
  This is going to be a function on each time it takes.  .pdf at point in time
  - random .pdf builds should have a "NOT AUTHORATIVE/DRAFT/etc" build.
- Alexios to send close draft to Jorey/Rex for further review by JDF, to make sure no surprises.

### Spec parser update

- Basic flow is spec parser runs,  then mkdocs runs
- Now you will see list "Superclasses" in each element.
- External properties cardinality updated
- All interited properties inside software are available, inside a class!
- After this rolls out, will ask the Japan team if they still see need for LITE Annex.
- Roll out plan:  Discussion with Jeff on whether we're pulling from latest spec parser.   Yes,  should be.
  - New spec parser now generating list of files for "nav" section in mkdocs.yaml.
    This should be integrated in the next release.
  - Will affect this CI PR https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/950
- Discussion on core expansion - Alexios version doesn't auto expand.
  - Core expansion issue: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/958
  - New version of readthedocs should fix.  Jeff will try to validate fix, and then apply.
- Is it possible to put the serialized json property in the table?
  Joshua thinks that this will help with confusion.
  Document of JSONLD context needs to be somewhere.
  Writing a JSON LD document from the page won't work.
  Alexios notes that the document describes RDF model.
  - Issue for serialized name in spec doc: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/975
