# Example of possible model file structure for internationalization and localization

- Proposed during 2024-05-28 Tech meeting with details added on 2024-05-29.
- See example files far below for illustration.

## Structure and format

- Model files and translations sit together in the same repo and same branch.
  - Possibly the same directory as well.
- Translations of a model file name will be in `name.lang.md` format.
  - `lang` is an ISO 639-1 two-letter language code.
  - Alternatively, we can opt for the IETF BCP 47 language tag (so it can handle
    cases like simplied Chinese and traditional Chinese scripts)
- Heading = String ID
  - The tool will recognise sections from their headings (Summary, Description,
    etc.) and can use these to match translations of the same section. 
  - For languages with missing sections, fall back to English.

## Translations

- Class names must not be translated.
  More notes on proposed requirements in Tech Team Meeting 2024-05-21 minutes
  https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/main/tech/2024/2024-05-21.md
- Contents in `Profile conformance`, `Summary`, `Description`, and `Entries`
  sections are meant to be translated.
- While contents in `Metadata`, `Properties`,
  `External properties restrictions` and `Referenced` sections are less likely
  meant to be translated.
  - The spec generation tool may choose to ignore the translations.
- The translation of headings themselves will be in a separate file (for
  example, `model-headings.csv`), so for one heading there will be only one
  translation needed per language.
  - For every new heading/section added to the model description structure, a
    heading entry has to be added to this file.
- The working process of the human editors of all languages will be pretty much
  unchanged. They will still work on the Markdown-like text files.
  - Each language community will work on a seperated group of files.
  - Adaptation in tooling is needed to pick up translations for generation.

## Examples

In the examples below:

- `Agent.md` is a main model file (in English), it can have all the
  headings/sections permitted in a model file.
- `Agent.ja.md` is a Japanese translation corresponding to `Agent.md`
  - `ja` is a language code for Japanese.
  - The headings/sections allowed here will be more limited that in a main
    model file.
- `model-headings.csv` contains the English headings and their translations.
  - The first line is the header line, with the same language codes as ones
    used in model file names. In this case, it uses the IETF language tag.

----

`Agent.md`:

```markdown
SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0

# Agent

## Summary

Agent represents anything with the potential to act on a system.

## Description

The Agent class represents anything that has the potential to act on a system.

## Metadata

- name: Agent
- SubclassOf: Element
- Instantiability: Concrete
```

----

`Agent.ja.md`:

```markdown
SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0

# Agent

## Summary

エージェントは、システム上で動作する可能性のあるものを表します。

## Description

Agent クラスは、システム上で動作する可能性のあるあらゆるものを表します。
```

Note that there is no Metadata heading, like in `Agent.md`, here, as the
content in that section is not meant to be translated.

----

`model-headings.csv`:

```csv
_id,en,ja,sv,th,zh-Hans,zh-Hant
0,"Profile conformance",プロファイル適合,Profilöverensstämmelse,ความสอดคล้องของโปรไฟล์,符合配置文件,輪廓一致性
1,Summary,まとめ,Sammanfattning,สรุป,概括,概括
2,Description,説明,Beskrivning,คำอธิบาย,描述,描述
3,Entries,エントリー,Inlägg,รายการ,条目,參賽作品
4,Metadata,メタデータ,Metadata,เมทาดาตา,元数据,元数据 
5,Properties,プロパティ,Egenskaper,คุณสมบัติ,特性,特性
6,"External properties restrictions",外部プロパティの制限,"Restriktioner för externa egenskaper",ข้อจำกัดคุณสมบัติภายนอก,外部属性限制,外部屬性限制
7,Referenced,参照,Refererade,ถูกอ้างจาก,引用,參考
```

Note that `zh-Hans` is for simplified Chinese (used in Mainland China,
Singapore, etc.) and `zh-Hant` is for traditional Chinese (used in Hong Kong,
Macau, and Taiwan).

----
