# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-04-16

## Attendees
- Rose Judge
- Jeff Licquia
- Gary O'Neall
- Karsten Klien
- Max Huber
- Arthit Suriyawongkul

### Regrets
- Kate (at EOSS in Seattle)

## Agenda
- Thank you to all -- SPDX 3.0 released on 4/15!
  - Please open issues/PRs in spec and/or model against 3.0.1.
  - Any overlooked contributors to 3.0 that should be added? 
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/912
- Populating examples, serializations, etc.
- Scheduling review of new 3.1 profiles - operations, hardware, services, safety
- Remaining 3.0 tagged issues - 

## Notes
- Discussed issue 919 in the spec repo
  - Looks like we missed updating the changelog.md file
  - Gary will create a PR against the development/3.0.1 branch to point to
    the release changelog in GitHub
  - Discussed possibly moving the 3.0 tag to include this, but there was
    consensus we should keep the proper git history and merge this to 3.0.1
- Decided to move the CI generation of in process documentation to the 3.0.1 branch
  - Jeff L. will take of this as well as making sure the 3.0 docs are accurate
- Since the model repo only uses tags, if we end up rebuilding the 3.0 branch,
  it will pull the latest from the model (not the 3.0 tag) which may not be what we want.
  Jeff will look into if we can fix this. We can always do a manual build if needed.
- We may have missed some contributors - please add them to the open
  pull request: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/918
- Two open issues for spec repo milestone 3.0 - moving to 3.0.1
  - Jeff will look into one of them

### Examples
- How to organize examples?
- Security team put examples inside the Markdown files of the spec.
  They are already part of the spec.
- Related repos
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples organizes by usecase/example/spdxversion
    - Already has 2.3 directory, can add 3.0 directory
  - https://github.com/spdx/outreach (Quickstart)
- Unlike 2.x, 3.0 doesn't has tag-value. (May comeback in 3.1)
- Can bring this discussion up to the Implementor group call.

## Decisions
- 

## Action Items
- 

## Next SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-04-23
