# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-04-23

## Attendees

- Mark Atwood (Amazon.com)
- Joshua Watt
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Steven Carbno
- Alfred Strauch
- Matt Rutkowski
- Jeff Licquia
- Dick Brooks
- Maximilian Huber
- Jory Burson
- Rose Judge
- Peter Monks
- Bob Martin
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Adolfo Garcia Veytia
- Karsten Klein
- Gary ONeall
- Kate Stewart

### Regrets

- Alexios Zavras

## Agenda

- Update on Announcement at OSS NA
- Markdown on MkDocs is more restricted than on GitHub. Leads to few wrong rendering on spec website.
  markdownlint may solve some but not all.
- How to handle Translations of the specification? PR in repo, policy on review? 
- Timing of releases:
- When 3.0.1 (post OMG period?)
- When target for 3.1?
- 3.1 Profiles reviews scheduling - hardware, operations, services, safety
- CISA fields mapping in pragmatic document - in JSON?
- Multiple sources of truth for ontology files https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/937

### PRs/Issues

## Notes

- Gary will present to OpenSSF SBOM Everywhere on May 21st
- Gary / Kate to coordinate a presentation on tooling for the OpenSSF SBOM Everywhere SIG;
  - Protobom demo? Talk to Adolfo

### Feedback from launch

- Some confusion with Protobom https://openssf.org/projects/protobom/
- Suggest we do a demo of Protobom converting to SPDX 3.0
- Talk at embedded open source summit - safety profile was mentioned and 3.0
- Sonatype said they are ready to start transitioning to SPDX 3.0
- Some discussions on how CycloneDX and SPDX could work together
- Suggestion to standardize PackageURL in ECMA - will pass on to steering committee
- Operations profile would like to include fields which describe the cryptographic information
  which is included in CDX contributed by IBM - request to include this in SPDX
  - Kate will email Matt R. details on the request to see if IBM could contribute
- Art gave a presentation on the AI profile
- Had good discussions with the Japanese group

### Translation of spec

- Request for translated versions of the spec
  - Would need to research mkdocs
  - Would need to have this in the model repo
  - Will open an issue to track
    - Review options here.   Target future meeting in agenda.
- Target for patch release - after we get feedback from implementations
  - Adolfo will have feedback after implementing demo for OpenSSF

### Diagram

- Adolpho - Diagramming framework into the documentation (markup)?
- Mermaid, etc. http://mermaid.js.org/intro/syntax-reference.html
- Bunch of JSON matches to this would be helpful.   Talk to Alexios about this? 

### Migration guide

- All is in the Annex now.   That's now the source of truth.
- From Joshua: I did make a little tool to query SPDX 3 files that I've been using
  to validate the SPDX generation in Yocto if anyone is interested:
  https://github.com/JPEWdev/spdx3query .
  It's using the Python bindings generated from the model

### Implementers call

- Folks moving to 3.0 may land.
- Java tools being worked.
- Python libraries being updated.
- NTIA minimum checker based on Python libraries;
  once it's done. Should read version field for 2.3 & 3.0 differences.

### Question on PDF version

- Will try to autogen from the mkdocs version
- May already be generated, but needs to be manually update
- Found the generated PDF: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/tree/gh-pages/v3.0/pdf

### New Profiles

- Operations - in next few weeks.
- Services - in about a month.
- Hardware - several months (request regarding a standard, from Alissa).
  - Standards field is an area that would to be covered.
    - Check discussion on standards fields https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/387
    - Both Core and AI Profiles now have fields related to standards
  - Two presentations from other organizations and need time to digest/reconcile.
- Safety - requirements as object.  Need to flesh this. 
- Integrity profile - artifacts validate may be needed.    Integrity checks for NTIA minimum would be validated,  cardinality restrictions.   Revisions on set of minimums?
- Agencies starting to look through self attestations - run through online tools.

### Support information

- SupportProvidedBy - relationship to be added (Joshua & Kate to discuss further), future rev.
  - Core or it's own profile.
- Proposal to create a subclass of Relationship specific to support
  - Would relate an Actor to the artifact supported
  - Would use the existing support enumeration SupportType
    https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0/model/Core/Vocabularies/SupportType/
  - Gary will create an issue to track
- Dick provided the a link to open-source VRF used by the IETF SCITT demo/Hackathon is described in this XML schema: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rjb4standards/REA-Products/master/CISA_VRFtemplate/SAGVendorSchema.xsd

### CISA Mapping

- CISA group is mapping minimum fields in "Pragmatic" document https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BpedvlZ0ledfDiYTcpyOUmrUxPGDS_HY/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs
- Should update the documentation to use the JSON fields for SPDX 2 & 3
- Looking for a volunteer to fill in a table
- Dick can help create mapping
- Gary can review

### Copying into Repo - Ontology Subdirectory

- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/937
- Alexios noted ontology files are generated, but not copied into specification.
- Art noted multiple sources of truth in spdx.org, spdx-3-model, and spdx-spec
- Should ontology directory still be needed.
- spdx.org URLs redirect to spdx.github.io URLs.
- Discussion to delete GH pages in SPDX 3 model, to reduce the clutter.
- Need to update CI for the generation of these files

## Decisions

- Aim for one new profile discussion per month in tech call.   (Operations, Services ready near term,  Hardware and Safety later)

## Action Items

## Next SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-04-30
