# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-05-14

## Attendees
- Kate Stewart
- Nisha Kumar
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Steven Carbno
- Jeff Licquia
- Rose Judge
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Dick Brooks
- Alfred Strauch
- Alexios Zavras
- Max Huber
- Joshua Watt
- Sean Barnum
- Bob Martin
- Jory Burson
- Victor Lu
- Matt Rutkowski

## Agenda
- Update from RSA?
- Add general software profile example https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/78
- Version alias https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/950 - include in 3.0.1 or not? 
- VEX Annex?
- Go SHACL update from serialization - add information about abstract classes to the SHACL model?

## Notes
- RSA
  - AI BOM meeting - good meeting with conversations.
  - Minutes & Video are up and posted - see www.linkedin.com/posts/helen-oakley_aibom-rsac-deepfakes-activity-7191934493375565825-WD_j/
    https://github.com/aibom-workshop/rsa-2024/blob/main/README.md
  - Discussion about how to indicate risk from models and datasets.
    - CVEs/CWEs/... or design something new.
    - Net is should be able to work with existing structure.
    - AI is software, and needs SBOMs of itself, and needs other kinds of BOMs for data sets. 

- Add general software profile example
  - Alexios volunteer to review the example https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/78
  
- Looked at AI BOM example - and looping in Joshua to help us formulate it.
  - Note SPDXIDs need to be globally unique & persistant (currently using github)
  
- Version alias https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/950 - include in 3.0.1 or not? 
  - Gary has reviewed; looking for second reviewer/approver to merge
  - Arthit notes that we need to be careful with this PR and does not recommend merging it. 
  - 3.0.1 will need to be in Draft mode.  3.0 will be where go to.   Jeff to check it looks right after the merge.   
  - Jeff will do a review and if spot anything needs further adjustment. 
  - Jeff has approved the PR; this will move us forward to set "latest" as 3.0.1, which Kate has indicated is the correct direction.

- VEX Annex review (Adolfo & Jeff)
   - no update so far.   Email to security team to follow up. 
   
- Go SHACL
  - Discussion in implementers meeting,  all of the classes as go interfaces?  Difficult for users of go library.   
  Structs can not be used for abstract classes due to circular references (esp. creationInfo);  some properties are abstract elements, rather than concrete elements.   No inheritence model for Go.   
  - Looking for ways that SHACL can communicate if something is an abstract class.   
  - Alexios: has changed spec parser, so now it should generate an abstract class - See https://github.com/spdx/spec-parser/pull/124 
  - 3.0.1 - do we update schema - rendering development support info better.
  - Sean looking for a validation of the SHACL approach from Alexios.  

- Element collection has a property called element, of type Element.    If lower case, can't access the property in Go.  Go does not like name collisions.   Should this not be a list of elements?   Pattern was to try to follow singular name. 
   - Same name for property and class, creates a clash when transformed into go.
   - Recommendation is to handle this special in generator.    
   - In future - handle this consistently as singlular.   Solved in go as "Elements" rather "Element".   
   - CreationInfo --> creationInfos.  
   - If name is same as class,  add an "s".  Is likely heuristic.  
   - If it matches suggest adding an "_" to the name?  like Python.  

- Josh did a run, on new SHACL model;  needs to be rendered into the spec, with manual change.
- Do we want to maintain 3.0.0 separate from 3.0.1 for JSON schema.    (which encodes it into every file).  Need to get Gary to weight in here. 

- Max fixed the SPDX Lite example - need to have globally unique IDs & persistant ids. ;  PR coming soon. 

- Rose:  For using NONE & NOASSERTION as a value for a key.   Joshua:  Need to special full id, as we don't have the contexts set up yet for JSON.   
   - If Object 1 & Object 2 - value of NOASSERTION for both?   How express?   Use NOASSERTION predefined SPDXID.  https://spdx.org/rdf/3.0.0/terms/Core/NoAssertionElement
   - Alexios, named individuals are already in spec parser.

- Alexios:  Example of licensing requested.- to include full version of NONE & NOASSERTION

## Decisions
- 

## Action Items
- Kate to loop in Joshua on discussion of AI examples with Gopi & Karen
- Nisha to redo rdf with new SHACL model;  

## Next SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-05-21
