# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-02-06

## Attendees
* Rob Craig (Linux Foundation)
* Jeff Licquia
* Sean Barnum - Interim Chair
* Karsten Klein
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Jory Burson (Linux Foundation - departed at 1:00 p.m. ET)
* Peter Monks
* Max Huber (departed at 12:50 p.m. ET)
* Henk Birkholz
* David Edelsohn
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Mark Atwood (Amazon)

* Regrets:  Gary O'Neall, Kate Stewart, Bob Martin, Alexios Zavras, and others at FOSDEM

## Agenda
* Remaining punch list items (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/622)
  * Allow for File objects to describe directories #618
  * How to express Known Unknowns and None relationships #623
  * Review and update SPDX-license-expressions.md - Add back SPDX license expressions to version 3 branch spdx-spec#877
  * PDF version of the spec
  * Review and update RDF-object-model-and-identifier-syntax.md
  * Update Annex F External repository identifiers - These are now identifiers - propose we leave this out of 3.0
  * Remaining punchlist items documented in https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/622

## Minutes
* Remaining punch list items (https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/622)

* #618 File objects to describe directories
  * Add file type property- Peter to update the issue with a note/comment
  * Directory vs string-based property: 
  * ISO File System Item (HB)
  * Is it worth considering a different structure in addition to directory/property?
  * Does this have to be resolved before RC2? Make note + task in PR for follow-up later.
  * Peter to create a seperate ticket for post-RC2 and link to existing PR (AI)
  Consensus: move forward with is dirtectory approach. Issue created for others.
  * (Peter) “packages are more than just files or directories” - the new issue is at https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/630

* #623 What min:0 means
  * conversation delved into updating markdown to reflect what "min zero" means in relationships within the spec. There was deliberation about expressing cases where no such relationship exists or when it is unknown whether they exist. It was proposed that two individuals be specified in the spec as subclasses of Element - one called "none," representing an empty set of elements, and another called "no assertion," representing elements with unasserted cardinality.
  * Create two individuals in the spec; approach suggested; subclasses of element. One 'none', one 'no assertion'.
  * Solution PR is #629; consensus that 629 is the prefered solution; approve and merge

* #387 Standards Fields
  * The conversation revolved around standard properties within artifacts, particularly focusing on whether more structure beyond just a string name would be beneficial. It was suggested that further conversations were needed to determine what properties should be included in this class structure and whether it should be an element or not. There was agreement among participants to change the existing property called "Standard" to "Standard name," while leaving it as a string for now. This change aimed at providing clearer semantics while allowing future discussions about adding class-based structures within this issue. 
  * has value to do but requires additional conversation
  * leave standard property for now and create a new issue around it post-RC2; stick w/ just string property for now (Gary). No additional thoughts from group. Current propert name (standard) becomes 'standard name' and leaving it as a string: no objections from the group. Will continue within issue, post RC2. Gary to change milestone.

### Jeff Licquia SpecParser update
* Jeff provided an update on the progress of merging GitHub Actions workflows for building the spec. He mentioned successfully experimenting with placing the 3.0 spec on the same page as 2.3and resolving issues related to security and tokens post-merging, which required further attention within a few days. Group inquired about automating documentation updates upon changes in the spec, seeking clarity on whether it would occur at every merge or only during release builds. Jeff clarified that they aimed for frequent updates reflecting any changes to ensure rapid development but acknowledged concerns about public visibility during ongoing developments.  A discussion ensued regarding making unstable versions publicly viewable alongside stable ones, ensuring clear labeling to distinguish between them. The team agreed that defaults should lead to stable versions while allowing access to unstable ones with explicit labels, addressing concerns about public perception during ongoing development. 
  * issues with security/tokens; reworking needs to be done.
  * HTML spec anticipated post-token/security
  * admins can trigger a manual build
  * Sean requests that autogeneration, geneate a spec, but not be the publically viewable version (prior to stability); Max: stable viewable version for public (default) with a WIP page (clearly identified as a WIP).

### Review and update RDF-object-model-and-identifier-syntax.md
* @sbarnum will follow up on if the manually created model diagram will work. 
* @zvr - will we have the diagram generation ready for RC2?

## Action Items
- [ ] Create a follow-up ticket post RC 2 meeting to consider extensibility paths regarding class hierarchy versus enumeration for file system objects 
- [ ] Change existing property called "Standard" to "Standard name" 

## Next Meeting 2024-02-13
