# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-06-18

## Attendees

- Steven Carbno
- Nisha Kumar
- Alfred Strauch
- Bob Martin
- Dick Brooks
- Ilan Schifter
- Alexios Zavras
- Jeff Licquia
- Joshua Watt
- Karstan Klein
- Maximilian Huber
- Peter Monks
- Kate Stewart
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- David Edelson

## Agenda

- New people introduction
- Operations profile update - Ummo
- Updates on Translations Language Framework
- Spec automation up-date
- Outstanding issues walk through

## Notes

- Ilan Schifter - working on SPDX 3.0 playground tooling.
   - Will work on demo for next week.

- Spec Automation (Bob, Alexios)
   - Working on producing on ISO compliant PDF.
   - Bob, Alexios, & Jason Smith worked through getting into tool chain that OMG has been working on. This will be adding numberings, and cross references.
   - Will be meeting later this week, to refine this further. Production workflow being set up up.
   - Looking into approaches on how to make sure we can extend this for translation sas well.

- Translation Language Framework update (Alexios, Jeff)
   - SPEC: Each translation hosted as directory per language.   Moving all current under /en.  Will show up in final website as selector per language.
   - MODEL:  Will add translations inside the document currently use.   Will do this as multiple sections with markdown.    Spec parser will be responsible for generating what the spec expects for each language.
      - Some discussion on how to put tags in the model file.  Lining up on ## Description de, ## Description ja - rather than using translated names.    Looking at figuring out notifications on markdown tasks to be created.
      - Summary and Description can be translated,  but Metadata & Properties remain as is. 
      
- Alexios added to the spec parser, generation of superclasses to show inheritance explicitly. 
   - List of files is automatically generated in mkdocs now as well. 
   - Inheriting from element should not be blank, in SHACL.
   
- Reference Examples? 
   - One Dataset profile has been validated.  https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/84
   - AI profile example; is still being worked on. https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/pull/80
   - Requesting Alexios & Max to do a review pass on the AI Dataset example
   - Nisha working on Example 7.
   - Joshua says anything in spdx-spec/examples - should be valid.   spdx/examples
   - What is in playground is not valid;  nor are the ones in the model.
   - What is in the model needs to either be removed or updated?  
   - Discussion of where the examples should be - model, spdx, examples, ... --> want to consolidate
   - Art also add this doc for validation on VS Code https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/790
   - Validation done at https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/blob/main/serialization%2Fjson_ld%2Fvalidation.md
   - For constraints,  SHACL seeing min & max;  relationships are also likely to be restricted for specific profiles.    Still working on translating the conformance points into SHACL (top level file documentation).    Type validation already exists (so relationship should be handled);  lifetime scoped relationships, is not captured yet, for instance.  

- Status of "Using document"? 
   - Stalled out - still need to be moved. 
   - Discussion that it needs to be generated to the website as well. 
   - Usage profile needs to remain in specification.
   
- Upcoming Events - CFPs
   - https://scored.dev/
   - SBOM-a-rama
   - Open Compliance Summit
