# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-01-30

## Attendees
* Mark Atwood
* Rob Craig
* Sean Barnum
* Jeff Licquia
* Joshua Watt
* Nisha Kumar
* Jeff Schutt
* Bob Martin
* Gary O'Neall
* Max Huber
* Karsten Klein
* David Edelsohn
* Arthit Suriyawongkul

* Regrets:  Kate Stewart

## Agenda
* New CISA Community Publication: https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2024-01/Assembling-a-Group-of-Products_508c_0.pdf
* Go through the "Punch List" of remaining RC2 items https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/622
  * 614, 615, 617, 623 need to be reviewed (and hopefully merged)
* Discuss / resolve #570 cardinality of locator

* Discuss - get input for - package verification code / content identifier

## Notes
* Re: Assembling a group of products document,  note:  this is easily handled already by SPDX 2.2, 2.3 and can be handled by 3.0, if questions arise.   It just documents expectation that if a group of products is tested and shipped together, it is a product in itself, and should reference the other product SBOMs, as well as the aggregate.

* Locator cardinality: Agreed to keep it optional.  External Identifiers have a required identifier which satisfies the vulnerability correlation use case.  In the future, we can subclass ExternalRef and create additional restrictions on the locator if we want/need.

* Discuss 623 - There is a question on graph semantic of min:0

* Gary discussed Kate's unavailability due to conflicting commitments and highlighted agenda items related to RC2 release preparations. He also expressed gratitude for assistance with meeting minutes and encouraged further collaboration in completing them. Additionally, he outlined topics such as reviewing punch lists, addressing package verification code/identity concerns raised by Alexios, discussing the cardinality of locator property issue 570, and reviewing a new CA community publication shared by Kate. 

* Gary proposed discussing two main topics from the punch list - package verification code/identity solution objections raised by Alexios and issue #570 regarding the cardinality of locator property. He sought input from Jeff on resolving these issues during the call or through group consensus. 

* The discussion shifted towards reviewing a publication related to grouping products for S-bombs or packages using identifiers based on recommendations provided within it. Attendees were encouraged to carefully review it for any concerns requiring changes in line with Kate's comments already included in the notes. 

* A detailed conversation ensued regarding issue #570 concerning external reference locator properties' required status within SPDX specifications about its necessity based on use cases such as correlating vulnerability databases. 

* Gary discussed the issue of content identifiers in the documentation proposed for package verification, which raised concerns from Alexios. Jeff emphasized that a year and a half ago, they defined content identifiers to be a GitOID and suggested not making significant changes to the model at this late stage. There were two alternative proposals by Alexios: renaming the content identifier to GitOID or allowing more than one type of value for the content identifier. The group expressed support for making the model flexible in terms of types of content identifiers, with some members favoring one proposal over another. 

* Jeff advocated for maintaining explicit support for GitOID while enabling other subclasses' specific support to go forward. He expressed concern about potential delays if significant changes were made at this stage but supported having a path forward that allows explicit support while enabling future subclass definitions. 

* Concerns were expressed about the potential issues with changing the property name to " GitOID " and favored maintaining it as a "content identifier." Compatibility concerns highlighted between package verification code and GitOID, leaning towards retaining the current approach. Gary suggested adding documentation specifying the default value as a compromise. The discussion revolved around whether changing the property type to a string would be a breaking change for parsers, with different viewpoints on its impact. 

* The conversation delved into whether to maintain RI as the type or change it to UI, considering implications for parsers and consumers. It was emphasized that enforcing RI or UI types could drive upstream specification efforts in defining identifier formats. It was proposed to use classes for different identifier types instead of key-value pairs, aiming at providing a more structured approach. 

* PR #611 vs #610 - Preference was expressed towards pull request #611 due to its flexibility and cleaner implementation compared to 610. There was an emphasis on maintaining clarity in content identifiers for ease of adoption by software supply vendors. 

* SPDX Tech participants discussed potential impacts on documentation resulting from changes in property names or types, highlighting considerations related to software supply vendors' understanding and compliance with specified formats. 

* Discussion regarding the naming of the content identifier " GitOID," emphasizing that it may become obsolete in the future. Suggestion made to rename it. A modeling question regarding the package verification code not being a URI was raised, which could lead to issues with random strings being input. The importance of having an identifier that can be used as a primary index and for traceability through multiple layers of documents and vendors was raised. 

* The proposal was made to rename the content identifier to " GitOID " to address concerns related to its current name, suggesting that merging or splitting up identification and verification methods could be addressed later. 

* There was discussion around supporting package verification code as a subclass of integrity method on every element in SPDX3, acknowledging its use within existing tools but limitations across different tools. The decision was made to continue supporting the package verification code in version 3 while deprecating it over time. 

* A debate arose regarding blending two concepts of truth and beauty model versus using consistent methods for artifact identification and verification. There were differing opinions on whether maintaining separate mechanisms for artifact identification would create confusion among users. 

* The technical debt implications of introducing new mechanisms such as " GitOID " were discussed, with some participants asserting strong preferences for certain approaches (e.g., 0#611 over #610). It was emphasized that introducing " GitOID " would not create more technical debt than other aspects of the model already present. 

* It was proposed merging #610 and #611. Concerns were expressed about duplicative capabilities. It was argued that both are duplicating the same thing in two different ways and suggested sticking with the current approach to avoid refactoring later. The discussion revolved around whether changing the property in #611 would work without hurting the package certification code. 

* Losing clarity was discussed if they move towards a more abstract and flexible support method with emphasis on changing the property name to ' GitOID ' would maintain intent without risking changes to the model or delaying RC2. Potential risks of remodeling properties and emphasized avoiding additional confusion by choosing not to remodel package verification code. 

* The conversation led some participants to express disappointment at reaching an impasse regarding agreement on merging specifications during this call. It was acknowledged that further discussions might be necessary in future meetings due to differing opinions among participants. 

* Documenting relationships with specific relationship types. Uncertainty was expressed by some participants about the use case for such documentation, mentioning that they couldn't understand the need for it. They highlighted the importance of involving Kate and others who understood the rationale behind this requirement to resolve the issue effectively. There were concerns about potential confusion arising from interpreting this type of documentation differently, as well as its impact on graph analytics. 

* The conversation delved into open-ended relationships without another end, particularly in a graph context. Concerns were raised about potential issues with orphaned edges in such relationships and alternative approaches for defining individual instances within classes to address these concerns more effectively. 

* It was acknowledged that further discussion with Kate and Gary was necessary to gain clarity on certain aspects discussed during the meeting. The group proposed adding a comment indicating that additional discussion with Kate and Gary was required regarding specific topics addressed during the call.

## Links
https://wiki.overturemaps.org/display/PROJ/Towards+a+v1.0.0+schema 
https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/622
https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2024-01/Assembling-a-Group-of-Products_508c_0.pdf

## AIs
- [ ] Review punch lists and address package verification code/identity concerns 
- [ ] Review new CA community publication shared by Kate 
- [ ] Add documentation specifying the default value for content identifier property name change

## Next Meeting: 2024-02-06
