# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-01-09

## Attendees
* Gary O'Neall
* Kate Stewart
* Josh Watt
* Jeff Licquia
* Nisha Kumar
* Alexios Zavras
* Sean Barnum
* Victor Lu
* Karseten Klein
* David Edelsohn
* Venkat Ramakrishnan
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Rob Craig
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Robert Martin
* Max Huber
* Henrik Birkholz
* Jeff Schutt
* Dick Brooks

## Agenda
* Rules for referencing non-core classes and properties: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/583
* Use of the JSON model format: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/579
* Non-model part of spec (Annexes) work
* Question about VEX & SPDX (Joshua Watt)
* Review of open PRs - "quick review and close"

## Pending Action Items:
   * For PR re: content type, need to update the definition to be element or property;  as well as that description in Annotation.
   * PR for clarifying contentType: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/592

## Referencing non-core classes (Alexios, Sean, Kate, Gary)
https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/583
- What can core reference?   
- Sean:  For properties that are on elements, the core would have all the element properties listed.  All in core, would loose modularity.   Where do we align with tooling vs. what is cleaner? From a formal specification we're generating OWL/SHACL - can handle fully modular.    Property applies to class in core, via shape assertion.  
- Alexios: If a profile needs to add a property to a class in another namespace, add to the file of the namespace that they will be referenced.    Element gets property named extension.   Example gets build time, release time, which were from a separate profile. 
- Kate: If things are used by more than one profile, they are put in core. 
- Sean:  Best to have separate a namespace for common.   Some worry about pulling classes down to core.  
- Alexios:  Wanted to make it easier for folks to see what is added/available, when adding properties in the files. 

## Documentaion
- Design principles should be documented.  Possibly put it as design principles.md in top level in model directory.
- Sean cautions it will not be comprehensively complete for a long time - and should not be a release blocker.
- This is not part of the spec, but more about development process.   Request for Sean & Alexios to start a rough note,  and put the info in an issue.   Put it in bullet form in an issue. 
- Victor: Will be great if the design principle goes into how this makes SPDX "simpler" to implement. Reference: CycloneDX: OWASP CycloneDX Authoritative Guide to SBOM

## JSON model  (Max, Sean, Alexios, Gary)
- Joshua is model.rdf file to date.   Gary is using the .ttl version of the model.   Max using the raw parsed markdown data.  Would like to have easier to read/understand rep of the model.   Markdowns are not machine readable.   Gap was previously filled with plain JSON export of internal state.    Goal would be making it easier for the tool providers. 
- Josh notes his effort is 3000 lines, it's mostly comments.    Looking for enum comments to be included. 
- Max can the SPDX project do this for multiple languages (not just python, but go, etc. )?   
- Josh notes it could be outputed in multiple other languages.    Max things that if we convert JSONTTL to programming language specific version would be even better. 
- Gary - 2 python generators, and 1 java generator - should we just combine.   Alexios points out Jinga templates should be considered.    Josh outputing fully qualified JSON LD. 
- FOSDEM:  SPDX Tooling meeting to sort this out, for a common code generator platform via Jinga templates seems like this is the right to direction.   Schedule BOF room space?    Alexios, Joshua, Max, Gary - aim for Friday night before FOSDEM?      This is not a blocker on -rc2.   PR depending on old format will be closed by Max. 
- Anyone interested in continuing the discussions,  implementers call tomorrow will be raising this per Gary. 

## Vex & SPDX (Joshua, Jeff, Kate, Gary)
- Joshua: redo way to report Vulnerabilities;   VEX is an abstract that says what you need to have to report vulnerabilities.   Different ways of encoding.  How should we encode vulnerabilities. 
- Kate:  CSAF VEX started it out,  then CycloneDX created their own version,  and then OpenVEX tried to encode further discussions at CISA working group of stakeholders on the topic.   SPDX has encoded this.
- Jeff:  Any of the VEX formats are supported in SPDX 3.0.   Any of the properties/fields described in the other formats, can be provide to translate across supply chain.   ie. CVEs without VEX are also possible.   Jeff is willing to be on point. 
- Joshua:  Mostly wanting to say we've patched this CVE, etc. 
- Dick gave a presentation to FDA on vulnerability reporting: https://github.com/rjb4standards/Presentations/raw/master/FDA%20Review-20231117.pptx.  Happy to answer questions.   He's  also written an article describing VEX, which includes a link to the recent OpenSSF article on Open VEX: https://energycentral.com/c/iu/setting-record-straight-vex-im-not-anti-vex-its-good-its-designed-purpose.

## SPDX 3 Annexes (Gary, Kate, Alexios)
See:  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1QHp5QwmBlsmd2iXNy-Y7K6oka_u5qc51iR6Xr0s0Qao/edit#gid=0
What do we do to annex & when? 
- Annex A - to be deleted.  Can be found in website. 
- Annex B - to be deleted.  Move to license list website a reference documented in license list xml schema.   Legal team needs to be checked with.
- Annex C - RDF model and Identifier syntax.   Replace with new diagram for -rc2.  For tag value serialization, needs to be determined after rc2.   Ideal is this should be generated and look nice.   Generated ontology should ideally be the picture, if it can be formatted.   Generated spec doesn't have a nice diagram, but it doesn't look nice.   Decision is to copy handmade for -rc2.   
- Annex D - SPDX License Expressions:   Update PR 
- Annex E - Leave as is for RC2
- Annex F - Leave as is for RC2 - mapping to external locator for format.  Jeff not sure that it's really going to be needed.   Alexios notes:  Depending on the first property we're saying what the second property should look lie. 
Jeff - we should separate between locators and identifiers.   We should remove overlapping concepts and separate into two appendices as needed.   Some of this will be inconsistant with 3.0.   Locator formats, need to be generalized to data formats.   Parts are in vocabulary, as IdentifierTypes, ExternalIdentifierType.   Regex string is very useful.  Rewrite will be needed.  Mark as not blocker, include if volunteer.   
- Annex K - request for Jeff to review with Security team. 

## Reminder about PRs
- Gary reminded everyone about outstanding pull requests that need reviewing before merging can occur. He emphasized that even just one review is appreciated so they can move forward with progress on multiple fronts.

## Decisions
* Meet at FOSDEM and discuss Common Jinga Templates for code generators.

## Action Items
- [ ] Review the spreadsheet created by Alexios for any annexes that need updating before RC2 release 
- [ ] Review open pull requests created by Gary 
- [ ] Document the rules on how profiles work and where properties should be placed 
- [ ] Fix issues with data license property and missing namespace issue for any license info class 
- [ ] Create an issue to document meeting discussions content 
- [ ] Make a plan to discuss SPDX tooling at FOSDEM conference 
- [ ] Merge PR regarding updating Annex D with additional information on license expressions used in SPDX spec files before RC2 release.
- [ ] Rewrite or remove external repository identifiers from the model 
- [ ] Update Annex if there is a volunteer; otherwise, it won't be included in RC2. 
- [ ] Review outstanding PRs so merging can occur

## Next Call
* [Call for comments] CodeMeta-SPDX 2.3 crosswalk https://github.com/codemeta/codemeta/pull/344

## Next SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-01-16
