# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-05-21

## Attendees
- Mark Atwood
- Maximillian Huber
- Joshua Watt
- Steven Carbno
- Nisha Kumar
- Sean Barnum
- Alfred Strauch
- Peter Monks
- Henk Birkholz
- Jeff Licquia
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Kate Stewart
- Gary O'Neall
- Matt Rutkowski
- Rose Judge
- Victor Lu
- Dick Brooks

## Agenda

- Review/merge meeting minutes https://github.com/spdx/meetings
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/962 (Need to regenerate 3.0 model to include abstract classes) --> DONE
- Users Guide --> moving annexes to new document.
- Translations --> where to log the information

## Notes

- Translations
- Henk:  RDF has a way to attach;  Class naming should shift to labels for languages.   Serialization specific.   Standard on language type strings.
- Gary:  mkdocs/markdown input, need to figured out.   Probably need to pull Alexios input.
- Sean:  Base names,  we can make it easier for consuming of japanese, with their labels.
- Joshua:  Don't change class names --> would be breaking changes.
- Henk: not so important for versioned SPDX --> with URIs being not readable.
- Jeff:  mkdocs has a plug in that allows you to provide translation  (.jp.md) - can say what.   Model portions of the spec will be generated into the spec.
- Gary:  Nice to have - OWL/SHACL pick up language tags/label.
- Sean:  When we're adding the languages, we should add the tags at that time.
- Jeff:  Drop down to the version,  each version has a language drop down that appears that have been deemed to be supported.
- Japanese team will start with SPDX Lite profile Annex in the model.
- Henk:  language labels for string problem.   Annotate with nested structure its language.   Every nested structure;  add what language you're in, and instance level.    Some inheritance may be possible,  thinking about unicode readable string.   
  - https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9290.html#name-language-tagged-strings (only for newer encodings, but that is what we'll use for lengthy sboms in any case, including ref to rdf label)
language tags are obviously a hard problem... 
  - https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr9/#Implicit_Directional_Marks
- Sean points out "instanceids" may be different.   Metadata in a language document that could be instance specific.

- Examples
   - Have a backlog and need to merge.
   - Steve Winslow examples? - need to move over.
   - Max points out that the tool entry getting creation info, needing a different id. If same id, needs same creation info.
   - If you want a single instance of a tool - need to publish a document somewhere.
   - UUID - need to keep readable.

- GSA is accepting portals: service up and running - Dick has submitted SPDX - US GSA announcement is here: https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7196518054288072704/ 

- For those interested in participating in services - join:  https://lists.spdx.org/g/SPDX-Software
- Joshua:  wrote a merging utility:  ....
- Joshua:  When we release SPDX 3.0.1 - will the model & schema all be 3.0.1?    3.0.0 --> new URLs?  and validate against new URLs.   
  - Do we need the micro version in the URLs? 
  - We may want talk about this for 3.0.1. (going to 3.0)
  - Art: For 3.0.x, no changes in model, the URL should stay 3.0 
  - Kate notes we still need to remove the "Draft" at the bottom of the spec at: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0/
  - Max: Missing SPDX definitions file missing in specification - import failure? 

## Decisions
- As we add other languages,  source of truth is the English version.
- We need to be very explicit about what is normative spec.
- We need to document a process for translation - second set of eyes reviewing each pull request in differnt language. 
- June 18th for Operations.

## Action Items

- Brief Alexios on the translations, get him reviewing and signed up for spec parser.
- Next week:  what annexes from spec, move into starting points of user guide .
- Services & Operations need to meet on 

## Next SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-05-28
