# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-11-12

## Attendees

- Alexios Zavras
- Alfred Strauch
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Bob Martin
- Chuck Wolber
- Gary O'Neall
- Ilan Schifter
- Joshua Watt
- Karsten Klein
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Peter Monks
- Steven Carbno

## Agenda

- OMG alignment feedback
- Update on branch policy implementation/action items
- Update on spec-parser merges and changes required in CI
- Keep "v" in the version part of the spdx-spec website URL or not?
  - 5 Nov 2024 Tech Meeting agreed to drop "v" (version) from the names of future branches/tags/releases
  - Do we like to drop it from the website URL as well or not?
    - Current URLs: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0.1/ https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/
  - Both options (keep and drop) are technically possible. Aliases/redirections can be made to avoid dead links.
- Translations:
    - spec
    - Model file localisation documentation https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/867
-   SHACL Constraints
- Future meeting agenda's 
  - are any of the profile teams ready to present?
  - continue discussion on verbosity of the SBOM representation - specifically license properties vs relationships: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/896


## Notes

### OMG
- Feedback on the format of the document (e.g. start of sections on odd vs. even pages)
- 2 Grammar issues that need to go back into the spec - in the model repo
  - Already merged
- More work to do on the PDF - Alexios will work on this in parallel to the release

### 3.0.1 release
- All changes from OMG feedback merged
- We can tag/release
- Can do the release for the spec repo
- Reviewed SHACL issues
  - Some issues with the spec were discovered
  - VEX/Vulnerabilities - issue - Ilan will create an issue
  - Create a PR for the typos
    - NoneLicenseElement -> NoneElement https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/906
- We'll use the milestone filter in the model repo to track any open issues that Ilan discovered that we feel need to be fixed in 3.0.1

- For the spe repo:
  - Art will create a PR (1) to update the workflow for new branch names
  - Gary will rename the branches and merge the PR (1)
  - After the rename / merge - we can work on other PR's (like the translation structure)

### Translations
- Model repo - everything is already in place for translations - once the branches are updated, they can create pull requests against the support/3.0 branch
- Action - notify the translators once the branch structure has been made
- Spec repo - Structure has been decided in June: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/main/tech/2024/2024-06-06-translation.md
- Action: Create a pull request to implement the structure and make the necessary changes to MkDocs - Art
- Action: request feedback on above PR from the translators
- Action: Communicate the structure to the translators once the PR is merged
- Action: create a translators email list "spdx-translators" - Kate and Alexios has names - Alexios to email Rob - have Rob broadcast the new email list to SPDX-tech and SPDX general mailings lists

- Keep "v" in the version part of the spdx-spec website URL or not?
  - 5 Nov 2024 Tech Meeting agreed to drop "v" (version) from the names of future branches/tags/releases
  - Do we like to drop it from the website URL as well or not?
    - Decision: we keep the "v" on the website, but drop it from the branch names
