# SPDX Tech Meeting 2024-03-05

## Attendees
- Gary O'Neall
- Bob Martin
- Alexios Zavras
- Jeff Licquia
- Jory Burson
- Karsten Klein
- Joshua Watt
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Matt Rutkowski
- Maximilian Juber
- Nisha Kumar
- Tim Bird
- David Edelsohn
- Henk Birkholz
- Arthit Suriyawongkul

## Agenda

### Issues
- Issue 651: Conflicting property names prevents compaction
- Issue 572: Confirm we have consensus on the data license – I think we can close this issue

### Discussion
- Issue 630: Consider extensibility for package "file" types
- Integrity Method related issues and PR’s – Issue 595,
- Issue 561: Add Software Level of Support property to Software Package
- Issue 522: Expressing conformance constraints – should this be moved to 3.1?

## Notes

- Gary reviewed https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/572 and asked if there were any objections to closing this issue. There were no objections to the proposal and the issue was closed.
- Gary then reviewed https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/651. The group reviewed the solution options in https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/651#issuecomment-1962662635.
  - Joshua suggested that unique names would be preferred (option 3).
  - Gary agreed that this would be an OK option, and suggested ways that unique names could be correlated.
  - A question was raised about the `sensitivePersonalInformation` property, but no one from the AI or dataset teams was available to address it.
  - A brief discussion ensued related to the Security profile, and Alexios helped the group recall previous decisions that had been reached on https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/167 related to namespacing.
  - Joshua suggested that an alternative solution could be to require namespace prefixes for our jsonld context.
  - Joshua briefly summarized some discussions that have been happening within the Serialization meeting for more context.
  - Joshua further clarified that both the json schema and an ontology will be generated for the spec, both of which can be used for validation.
  - The group reviewed the impact of the name options on the field names in the JSONld example, and explored the impact of the different options (e.g. "core:createdBy").
  - Joshua highlighted that this might require a behavior change as most people do not tend to prefer to write this way.
  - After a good amount of discussion, the group began to build some consensus for the third option to always use namespace prefixes, noting that it may make the documents more readable.
  - Maxmillian expressed disagreement, noting that this approach may introduce some weirdness.
  - The group created and looked at some examples to visualize the differences, and discussed pros and cons and preferences.
  - Tim, expressing his point of view as a relative newcomer to the call, did not like the prefixing requirement and suggested that the profile writers should coordinate naming and reduce any ambiguity.
  - Another option for prefixing, if there's no prefix, the default namespace is `core`. To reduce the need to put prefix. Less intrusive. General consensus to use this.
  - Use namespace (all in lowercase), an underscore, and property/class/... name
- spdxId property (in Core /Element) should map to @id

## Action Items
- [Alexios]: update spec-parser to not generate property in RDF; and update Core/Properties/spdxId.md  description
- [Arthit]: open PR to rename sensitivePersonalInformation in AI and Dataset Profiles
