# SPDX Tech Meeting 2024-02-20

## Attendees
- Jory Burson (Linux Foundation)
- Maximillian Huber
- Joshua Watt
- Alexios Zavras
- Victor Lu
- Gary O'Neall
- Nisha Kumar
- Kate Stewart
- Karsten Klein
- David Edelsohn
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Robert Martin
- Matt Rutkowski
- Dick Brooks

## Agenda
- How to handle blank/empty copyright text? https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/855
- chore: organize Tech 2023 folder https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/602
- chore: organize Asia 2023 folder https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/603
- RC2 Status
- Planning
  - Serialization team restart
  - JSON Schema vs. JSON LD
  - RDF related issues - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3ARDF%2FOWL%2FSHACL
  - Protocol Buffers - Nisha

## Notes

### How to handle blank copyright text https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/855
- Question: if you have a string of length 0, what is the desired behaviour? Proposal is to treat as `value not present`. Proposal is from Sebatian S. Consensus Decision was that Sebatian should move forward with this proposal.

### chore: organize Tech 2023 folder https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/602
- Agreed, reviews requested. / Merged

### chore: organize Asia 2023 folder https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/603
- Agreed, reviews requested. / Merged

### RC2 Status
- Many PRs and issues have been reviewed and closed, generated version of the pdf has been made.
- RC2 has been tagged.
- Robert Martin noted the pdf did not generate security-related data; Robert has been working to update and repair the Word version. Kate further noted that the model diagrams were being updated;
- OMG meeting is in four weeks to review the models. Robert will generate issues from the OMG feedback. 
- Maximillian suggested that the RC2 candidate be tagged as a pre-release, and that the .pdf and model diagrams be attached as artificates for the release. Kate suggests waiting for  Jeff to finish CI integration, and the docs being automatically being created.  
- For create RCs as formal public release, that can be promoted. Maximillian suggested that the model be included as a submodule.
- The group discussed some related issues with the mechanics/automation for preparing & shipping releases. Gary, Maximillian, Jeff L, and perhaps others should find time soon to talk through different approaches. 
- Additional issues with the PDF generator were noted, particulalry the plugins. HTML version is generating OK. 
- Does the group want to create a RC3 milestone, specifically focused on addressing feedback from OMG, targeting for a release in approximately one month. 
- Joshua requested that an RC3 release include improvements/updates to the SHACL model. Alexios indicated that it would be achieved by RC3. Alexios gave a brief update on the SHACL work. Alexios will merge WIP before Friday.
  - DECISION: Gary will create a milestone for RC3. Robert will tag OMG feedback as RC3. Gary will update Jeff L.
- Discussion ensued about how the pdf generator is missing chunks of data in the spec. 

### Planning
- Gary suggested restarting the serialization team meetings. Upcoming topics for this meeting could be looking at other serialization formats beyond JSON-LD, and what the candidates for that could be (Simple JSON, Tag Value, etc). 
- Gary called for volunteers to lead this effort. Nisha offered to lead, and Gary will suggest Jeff L co-lead. Gary clarifed that this is a weekly meeting on Thursdays, at 11 a.m. ET., but suggested that Nisha can update the meeting as she needs. Kate requested that the group wait to discuss tagged value until she has returned from vacation. Gary noted that there is a strong community that will want a light, simple JSON Schema version. Joshua disagreed but noted that the discussion can be continued on Thursday.
- protocol buffers, tooling/parsers, other serialization formats will be discussed, reviewed and proposed in this meeting. 
  - DECISION: The Serialization meetings will resume, starting this Thursday Feb. 22. (https://github.com/spdx/meetings#serialisation-focus-group-meetings)
- Discussion ensued about protobuff, but the discussion was tabled for continuation at the serialization meeting. 
- Matt R. gave a brief summary of his findings looking into import/export formats, noting that none of the solutions he had viewed so far offered a complete approach. Matt R. will plan to join the Serialization call as well to further share his findings. 
- Gary highlighted a list of RDF-related issues to revisit, and suggested a new sub-group to tackle RDF-specific issues post-RC2. The link to those tagged issues is https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3ARDF%2FOWL%2FSHACL. There was not a strong desire to create a new meeting, but Alexios, Sean, Gary and others may review via email thread. 
  - NOTE: Alexios will be on vacation next week.
- Gary noted that issues and feedback brought from the OMG review should be treated as top priority

### Any other business
- Kate suggested that the group begin focusing on tooling
- Kate further suggested that the group look at further interop between Cyclone and SPDX. Matt noted that tooling is a factor. Gary shared some feedback as well from Brandon Lum related to property mapping between Cyclone and SPDX. Matt R. noted that he is a proponent of using URNs. Gary shared an anecdote related to how the translation worked between SPDX 2.3, wherein some of the work SPDX had done to improve interop was not meaningful for the Cyclone tooling users, and noted that this was perhaps due to a lack of feedback and input. Matt and Gary discussed a few different factors that could impact, and Matt shared links to SCVS projects at https://scvs.owasp.org/ 

### Logistics
- Alexios working in Greece after Feb 28.
- Kate on vacation Feb 27 - March 15.
- Gary - on car on Feb 27.
- Rest on call should be around for the next month.
