# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-10-29

## Attendees

- Alfred Strauch
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Dick Brooks
- Gary O'Neall
- Ilan Schifter
- Karsten Klein
- Maximilian Huber
- Sean Barnum
- Steven Carbno

## Agenda

- Change to how we represent Abstract classes in SHACL file: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1089
- Readiness for 3.0.1 release
- 3.0.1 remaining issues revew:
  - spdx-spec: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A3.0.1
  - spdx-3-model: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A3.0.1

## Notes

- Agreement to stop using the custom AbstractClass and only use SHACL (sh:not)

- 3.0.1 PDF submitted to OMG. Waiting feedback from OMG. Changes may needed in both spdx-spec and spdx-3-model repos (mostly on languages, but very minimal on the model itself). After those OMG feedbacks got incorporated, we can tag freeze both repos.
- Branch structure. Need to finalize for 3.1 and also for translations.
- Need to add specifics:
    - Should the spec release branch be named just the version (e.g. v3.0.0)?
     - Brach: Major.Minor ?
     - Tag release: Major.Minor.Patch ?
    - Should we create release branches on the model repo?
    - Should we create additional tags for a release on each language addition?
- Visual proposals for branch strategies https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fb9VzszqVQoAYD3tviTb_u1EHDOMPzzJp8i2RkffEAo/edit?usp=sharing
- Discussion on different branch strategies - no consensus on a single branch strategy
- We will follow-up next week and discuss alternative branching strategies based on the diagram and any proposed diagrams
- From current PRs, spdx-spec repo will be additions (of new translated files), and spdx-3-model repo will be modifications (to existing files that contain multiple languages)
