# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-10-15

## Attendees

- Alfred Strauch
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Bob Martin
- Dick Brooks
- Gary O'Neall
- Jeff Licquia
- Joshua Watt
- Karsten Klein
- Kate Stewart
- Rose Judge
- Sean Barnum
- Steven Carbno

## Agenda

- Japan Participation
- CISA/SEI SBOM plugfest info
- Updates on OMG and ISO submission
- Meetings and minutes
  - Pause the software as a service meetings
    https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/721
  - [Operations] meeting zoom link is expired
    https://github.com/spdx/meetings/issues/777
  - Move Tech minutes to YEAR/ folders
    https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/759
  - Approve meeting minutes
    https://github.com/spdx/meetings/labels/Tech
- README
  - Separate build instructions from the README
    https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1137
- v3.1 model
  - Omission of an optional field semantic (= NOASSERTION)
    - Proposed for v2.3.1, should v3.1 also has it?
      https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/861
    - See Action Items of Tech Team Meeting 2023-08-22
      https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/main/tech/SPDX%20Tech%20Team%20Meeting%202023-08-22.md
- Tools
  - tools-golang: Feedback requested for prototype 3.0 model
    https://github.com/spdx/tools-golang/pull/247
  - tools-python: Update spdx3.model to SPDX v3.0.1
    https://github.com/spdx/tools-python/pull/829
- Open Source Summit Japan (Tokyo, 28-29 Oct 2024)
  https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-japan/

## Notes

### Community Get Togethers
- Japan: Kate, Gopi will be present.  November 1 get together.  Japan SBOM - contact Kate
  - https://www.linuxfoundation.jp/events/2024/09/join-us-at-japan-sbom-summit-on-november-1-2024/
- Member Summit: Gary, Kate, Jeff Schapiro, Steve Winslow - contact Gary
  - Gary will reach out to Jilayne and Steve and propose a day - likely last night of the legal summit
- SOSS Fusion?  Any SBOM activity?

### CISA SEI Plugfest Info
- How to Engage The NIST SBOM plug-fest:  SEI POCs
  - David Tobar dtobar@cert.org and Brett Tucker batucker@cert.org.
  - CISA PoC Ã®s Victoria Ontiveros - victoria.ontiveros@cisa.dhs.gov
  - Gary to reach out to them, and provide community input.   Rose & Gary to take point on sharing our prior experience.

### OMG/ISO submission progress
- Bob giving updates on the progress
- Approved at the architecture board level
- Working on marking up from OMG editor - looking at couple of weeks.
- Assumption on content not changing - we'll hold off on release tagging until this input.
- Jory to be looped in by Bob, and keep Gary & Kate on copy. 

### Minutes
- Kate & Gary need to take a pass on Tech, and leads take ownership for PRs. 
- Agreement to reorganize to merge by years. 
- Operations - need someone in call to do approval. 
- Bob willing to help out on any that Art, Kate, Gary not involved in. 

### SPDX Repo structure.
- #1137 in SPEC repo - reviewed in meeting.   Looks good to all. 

### License relationships vs. property
- Relationships to NOASSERTION
- Licenses being properties vs relationships.   Relationships are blowing up size of files.   See 861.
- Intrinsic aspect should be a property (ie. declared);   concluded.   Sean things they should both be relationships.
- Problem is making a bunch of relationships to NOASSERTION for Containers. 
- Discussion ended up on having a call on more efficient representation.   Henk recommends we clarify semantics first. 
- Henk to open an issue - for future meeting;   Sean, Alexios, Steve, Gary, Kate need to be part of this discussion. 

### Tools 
- Looking for Max & Jeff to look at Art's PR for Python.
