# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-12-17

## Attendees

- Gary O'Neall
- Steven Carbno
- Alfred Strauch
- Ilan Schifter
- Arthit Suriyongkul
- Alexios Zavras
- Kate Stewart
- Joshua Watt
- Sean Barnum
- Dick Brooks
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau

## Agenda

- Release update
  - Model repo
  - Spec repo
    - Remaining work
- Moving forward with 3.1 - can we merge in the profile pull requests?
  - What process do we want to use prior to merging?
- TEA Protocol presentation (to be scheduled)
- Branches
  - What are going to name the develop branch spec published URL?  3.1?
  - How do we handle the 3.0.2 changes?
- Localization
  - Is it 3.0.1 or 3.02?  

## Notes

### Release update
- Model repo is completed and tagged from weekend.
   - Main is 3.0.1 right now.   Head of main is always latest release.   Tags are how we're tracking releases. 
   
- Spec repo still needs some additional work. 
   - Arthit pointed out date issue (November vs. December), and working with Alexios on resolving
   
- Branching & naming post 3.0.1;   keep placeholder for 3.0.2. - likely support branch & localization changes. 
   - Need to clarify how it will appear on the website. 
   
- Re-release 3.0.1 in spec: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1167 

- TODO:  Need to document on and put this on the website.   Owner needs to be identified. 

### 3.1 profile merging
- Profiles branches will be merged to the develop branch (not main!)
- What is the review process for profiles
  - Before the tech call, you can create a branch off of Develop with changes
  - Any profile specific issues or pull requests should be labeled with the profile:xxx label
  - Pull requests to the profile branch from the profile team will be merged as soon as we see them
  - When the profile is ready for review - including the branch being updated, schedule a Tuesday call for review
  - Based on the call, either changes are made to the profile branch or we merge it into Develop
  - Need to update the CONTRIBUTING.md file with the above - also note that it references the incorrect branch for merging - should be develop not main
  
### Name for the published HTML spec from the spdx-spec develop branch
- Proposal: develop branch:  In-Development
- Main - we'll publish from the tag not the branch
- support/3.0 - publish as 3.0.X-dev
- Any stable - publish from tag - in main branch

- No meeting 12/24 or 12/31. next meeting is 1/7/25
