# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-04-30

## Attendees

- Kate Stewart
- Gary O'Neall
- Bob Martin
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Alfred Strauch
- Dick Brooks
- Nisha Kumar
- Peter Monks
- Steven Carbno
- Victor Lu
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- David Edelsohn
- Adolfo Garcia Veytia
- Karsten Klein

## Agenda

- Open Source Summit Europe Call for Proposals - Deadline 30 April
  https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-europe/program/cfp/
  https://sessionize.com/open-source-summit-europe-2024 (Kate)
- Any issues found on 3.0 that impacts implementations? (Gary)
- Examples for SPDX 3.0 (Gary)
- Reminder about Implementers Call (Victor)
- Tooling list reboot (Bob)

### PRs/Issues
- Merge a bunch of documentation PRs in spdx-3-model repo
- On sorting entries https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/742
  - The majority of the call agrees to keep the original order (starting with "core")
    for the time being as the list is not that big.
  - The call also open that in the future when the list is growing we can reconsider
    to have it alphabetically sorted.

## Notes
- Documentation related PRs;  Merge conflicts;  Very much appreciated the fixes.

### Implementers call
- Potential issues brought up in tech call: 
    - SHACL interpretation is needed.  Help would be awesome. 
    - Working towards Golang/SHACL to code generators. 
    - Out of band - some are willing to help.   Trying to figure out what else is needed. 
    - Mailing to tech list "SHACL office hours" to mailiing list and direct to implementers - Joshua, Sean & Alexios are also good resources in addition to Gary. 
    - Joshua has wrapped some in Python.   Missing comments. 
- Info on how to join. *****
- Info on the tooling list reach out.

### Examples Repo

- 3 places for examples currently:
  - A "spdx-examples" (SPDX Usage Examples) repo
    - Focus on use cases, scenarios. In different SPDX versions.
    - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples
    - Need to put in SPDX 3.0 folders under each of the examples
  - A snippet inside each Class (as what Security team did)
    - Focus on the use of a specific Class
    - Example: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v3.0/model/Security/Classes/CvssV2VulnAssessmentRelationship/
  - examples/ directory in "spdx-spec" repo
    - Focus on examples for specific version
    - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/tree/development/v3.0.1/examples
- Nisha volunteers to move her golang examples to SPDX 3.0
- Partial efforts - 3.0
  - Joshua - code generator for 3.0;
  - Max looking at Python bindings;
  - Nisha looking at Golang bindings;
  - Gary looking at Java bindings;
  - Python - adding it in to community calls.
- Kate & Karen need help with Examples reviewing JSON-LD format.
   - Plan is to get accurate, and then move over - and add in a folder.
- Add into folder by profiles, organized by use cases.
- Looking for volunteers for security, lite & build profiles to have directories. 
- Examples are agreed to help people understand the specification. 
- Rose has links from security meetings - draw.io.
- Questions on how we should use SPDX - request to open issue in examples repo of the type of example they are looking for.   Discussion on how vulnerabilities and SBOMs should be used together.     Gary refernced his talk from https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16tBgUMvTEvBufRgpbszHdO-2BEeqAegiHq5dIyAUYdE/edit.   Using external links from vulnerability to SPDX data.
- Kate looking to see SBOM types (Core+Software);  some volunteers need to see examples to volunteer. 
- Checker is needed for examples are accurate. 

- Adding examples into spec itself or giant document?   Which is preference:
   - Markdown with syntax in spec itself.
   - SPDX 2.3 approach with a giant document file, with all of the elements implemented. 
- Discussion landed for now on adding syntax into different markdown files.    Looking to profile teams to implement them - let profile team find volunteers? 
- For this team:  Core & Software will be handled.   Anyone with time is welcome to create PRs.
- Marc-Etienne is looking for a complete examples to validate.    Discussion landed around using Examples repo for having complete examples for tooling to validate. 
- Kate to follow up with OpenDataology --> 3.0 with Gopi. 

- Serialization:  Will be switching to be more topical,  SPDX Lite team - JSON schema in 3.1;    Let Joshua, Alexios, Gary know if topic if needed.

### Tooling list reboot
- Minimal items included needs to be reached out.
- Form is confusing.     Submit to Outreach repo, if ideas on improving submittal form.
- New process to collect and put a single page together - commercial and open source tools. 
- Letter going to all currently listed efforts - richer request for data.   Asking for a bit more info. 
- Looking for points of contact for some of the tools.   Also,  for those that should be listed.
- Asking about 3.0 migration plans. 
- SBOM everywhere: https://sbom-catalog.openssf.org/ with sources at https://github.com/ossf/sbom-everywhere/tree/main/SBOM-Catalog

### Uploads to CISA Secure Attestation
- Dick pointed us at the Federal cybersecurity directive as issued today:
  https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/04/30/national-security-memorandum-on-critical-infrastructure-security-and-resilience/
- User Guide: RSAA Users Guide and Lessons Learned:
  https://github.com/rjb4standards/Presentations/raw/master/NASA-Presentation-ICT_SCRM%20(003)-GEORGE-V3.pptx

### RSA Events Next week
- https://github.com/aibom-workshop/rsa-2024 is free to attend. 

### General Call
- Allan Friedman to be guest speaker on Thursday

### Call to be transitioned to 9-10 Pacific Time
- Gary to update the repos.

## Next call
- Review PRs in spdx-spec repo
