# SPDX Tech Team Meeting 2024-05-28

## Attendees

- Adolfo Garcia Veytia
- Alexios Zavras
- Alfred Strauch
- Arthit Suriyawongkul
- Bob Martin
- Dick Brooks
- Gary O'Neall
- Henk Birkholz
- Joshua Watt
- Karsten Klein
- Kate Stewart
- Keith Zantow
- Marc-Etienne Vargenau
- Nisha Kumar
- Peter Monk
- Rose Judge
- Steven Carbno
- Victor Lu

## Agenda

- Tooling migration Update
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/964
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/610
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/960

- Validation errors with change in license list version format
- Upcoming implementers call agenda
- Localization i18n SPDX spec

## Notes

### Tooling Migration
- Gary update on the Java code generator, finding some interesting corner cases.
- Gary suggests Peter and Josh might be interested.
- Most of the issues are between 2.3 & 3.0.
- Point website to Slack: https://spdx.dev/engage/participate/technical-team/

### Namespace Examples - Necessary to make examples more readable.
- Need to update schema to handle examples & code bindings need to be updated as well.
- Define own @context in the document.
  Schema will need to be updated to permit an array of prefixes.   Can only use it in SPDXIDs, etc.
- Can mention any URI is possile.   Consider pulling in the text description from 2.2 into SPDXId 3.0.
- Issue 776 created to track this. https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/776

### How to handle symlinks in SPDX documents
- https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/610
- For 3.0 - refer to how GitOID & SWHIDs - handled as Blobs;  symlinks don't have copy.  Symlinks are treated as reference to another file,  and contents are not copied.
- For SPDX 3.0 we are depricating the use of package verification code, and prefering to use either GitOids & SWHIDS
- To model a full POSIX compliant file system;  need to have symlink as a sibling of file class.   Block and Character devices will have the same issue.    Consider this as a new class for 3.1?    
- We should also look at all the possible options and talk this through. 

### Update on the Validation issues related to the license list version
- https://github.com/spdx/license-list-data/
- Issue with online validation
- Batch validation
- How long we're going to support older version of SPDX (2.x, etc).
  - Discussion about sunsetting process.
  - How many major/minor versions we would like to support at the same time?
  - Support level regarding major/minor/patch versions.
  - We are looking for a level of backward compatibility.
- How to handle patch version.
- Utilization of metadata, like `licenseListVersion`.
  See one in https://github.com/spdx/license-list-data/blob/main/json/exceptions.json
- Dick in the chatbox: License terms can change with a patch release.
  I'm thinking we will need version info specific to patch releases.

### Localization and internationalization of SPDX spec
- Alexios propose using a branch for a translation
- Gary: a translation can be a separated file inside a model repo
- The issue of syncing from English version
- Max propose extracting all English strings and put them to a spreadsheet. Have
  - With additional string ID,  this is generally an approach that typical L10n process is using.
  - Will allow the use of L10n tools like https://weblate.org/en/
- Arthit give an example in the chat:
  - Following Gary's suggestion on having a separate file for each language.
  - Structure and format:
    - Model files and translations sit together in the same repo and same branch.
      - Possibly the same directory as well.
    - Translations of a model file name will be in `name.lang.md` format.
    - Heading = String ID
      - The tool will recognise sections from their headings (Summary, Description,
        etc.) and can use these to match translations of the same section.
      - For languages with missing sections, fall back to English.
  - Translation process:
    - Contents in `Profile conformance`, `Summary`, `Description`, and `Entries`
      sections are meant to be translated.
    - While contents in `Metadata`, `Properties`,
      `External properties restrictions` and `Referenced` sections are less likely
      meant to be translated. The spec generation tool may choose to ignore the translations.
    - The translation of headings themselves will be in a separate file (for
      example, `model-headings.csv`), so for one heading there will be only one
      translation needed per language.
  - See the examples in https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/701
    (will be avail at https://github.com/spdx/meetings/blob/main/tech/2024/2024-05-28-i18n-examples.md )
    In the examples:
    - `Agent.md` is a main model file (in English), it can have all the headings/sections.
    - `Agent.ja.md` is a Japanese translation corresponding to `Agent.md`.
      The headings/sections allowed here will be more limited.
    - `model-headings.csv` contains the English headings and their translations.

## Decisions

## Action Items
