# SPDX Asia Tech,  July 12, 2021

## Attendees
* Takashi Ninjouji
* Yoshiyuki Ito
* Norio Kobota
* Joshua Marpet
* Nisha Kumar
* Kate Stewart

## Agenda
* Update on NTIA plugfest
* Outreach committee - who is interested / influencer in adopting SPDX
* Template to populate for Usage Profile?

## Notes

### NTIA Plugfest Result
https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1Ujxp8w7dhrL6TNj5NxcaASbqPSoVTP1Y
Group of people analyzed the plugfest #2. Kate-san showed a presentation of the plugfest.
13 SBOM producers between plugfest 1 and 2
We want to narrow it down to 3 or 4 sets of data, so apples to apples comparisons can be made.
The next NTIA plugfest will probably have 5 targets total.
In terms of formats, Tech Value (TV) SPDX was the most used
SWID does not have a natural way to represent multiple bill of materials, but a group created a "multi-SWID"
67 SBOM's created
Lovely statistics were metric'ed, for future reference.
CycloneDX accepts the SPDX license list and OTHERS. Problem doesn't flag licenses that are not on License list
10 tools submitted ad produced SPDX files.
Zephyr tool read out all the build files and built SPDX off of the entire source build!!! Very exciting!!!!!
Plugfest in Japan? Kate  is happy to mentor, but someone else needs to take point.
the instructions exist, the only things that need to be added are the people running the event, and the packages to use in the competition/event.
Kate mentioned that the plugfest was most successful when SPDX, CycloneDX, and SWID was nice to be able to perform comparisons against each other.
naming of the components. interoperability of the information, with naming, with licensing, etc. - Ninjouji-san asked about the naming root guidelines of the components.
Kate-san explained that commercial vendors need to participate to see the results.  To answer Ninjouji-san, the instructions are pretty clear about naming.
Fukuchi-san will be planning Plugfest Japan. Very exciting!
Challenge:  identifying example that have a reasonable set of dependencies. - define reasonable? :)
What is canonical output - "best practice".
All results from plugfests are staying public for future reference.
NTIA's guidance on minimal elements came out today! https://www.ntia.doc.gov/files/ntia/publications/sbom_minimum_elements_report.pdf
We reviewed the NTIA document, and realized that the SPDX standard is far far far ahead of this document.
https://github.com/notaryproject/nv2 - steve lasker's project at OCI to sign containers.
Synopsys and SNYK is already attending the plugfests, and might be fascinated by participating in Plugfest Japan
iso.org/standard/81870 - SPDX is at PRF stage, and has a publication date of 08/2021
https://github.com/spdx/spec-v3-template



### Outreach
* Is there any Japanese Government / JP CERT influence to use an SBOM?
   * Not sure - OpenChain no attendees from JP CERT.   Contact?
   * Who willing to talk to Tomo Ito?  Fukuchi-san & Ito-san  AI:  Kate to make introduction
* There is ENISA Cybersecurity for IoT - calls for SBOM but doesn't define.

### Usage Profile
* Discusing future product of unique id.
* Discussing how to express expiration
* Submitting proposal under latest template - expecting to issue pull in a few weeks/month.
