#SPDX Asia Tech Team Meeting,  April 12, 2021

## Attendees
* Kate Stewart
* Joshua Marpet
* Hiro Fukuchi
* Norio Kobota
* Yoshiyuki Ito
* Nisha Kumar
* Shane Coughlan

## Agenda
* Round Table - Introduction
* Update on Usage Profile, any new fields (Japan team)
* Work in progress on SPDX Template for 3.0 specification (Kate)
* NTIA SBOM Plugfest update
* New day to meet

## Notes

* New Participant
  * Joshua Marpet - DBOM consortium calls.   Worked on SBOM related activities.
     Background in compliance.   Has compliance consulting,  CMMC (mature cybersecurity),
     RISK management ISOW - become compliant.
  * Hiro Fukuchi - SPDX-Lite originated from OpenChain working group.  Concentrates on
    real business and real standard.
 * Norio Kobota - Sony - Industry maturing,  but amateur needs subset.   Will be introducing
   to the amateurs - making it easy .
   * Yoshiyuki Ito - Renesas - Proposing the Usage profile for SPDX 3.0.   This is coming in from
   the automotive industry needs.   Similar to the wider SBOM requirements required by business.
   Checking how we can get the usage profile fitting.
   * Nisha Kumar - VMware - lookg at ways to incorporate SBOMs into cloud native applications,
   co-mainter of TERN project.

* Usage Profile Update
  * Asking about current discussion trend.   How share profile dependent tag?  Valid until tag may be of interest to security tag.    Use model to describe certain aspects.   Can say some metadata is mandatory, and others are optional.   This will be the case for the other profiles as well.
  * How will the tools be able to deal with the set up, brough this topic up.

* Linkage Profile Update
  * could be part of security?   Can't call it networking/dataflow - but describes the evolution of an artifact.
  * reference profiles can call, to illustrate what others talking about.   Lots of artifacts distributed across a network with no metadata.  Library of Ansible playbooks, server linked to.    Generated from.   Create the links to create the reference libraries?   Defining the connections to build the map.   Compliance is interested,  define how map is used, and process.   Uses a combination of mandatory and optional meta-data.   Think of linkage beyond boundaries.
   * Example container: https://github.com/SantiagoTorres/spdx-linking-mockups/blob/master/k8s-autoscaler-spdx.txt works for SPDX 2.2

* Other profiles - recommend use Security rather than Vulnerabilities/Defects

* SPDX Template
  * Template - work in progress.   Goal of template is for modeling, tooling, and ISO specification format.

* NTIA SBOM Plugfest 4/9
  * Folder - https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1zIqD2kPevZhDQcnJjaYLBccUm1dIz3Pw
  * Notes - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LfeTAKSalSc5Wx2tQ3nf_9U6UCsxXh3eDLdmr4ZdNQM/edit#

* Koboto-san:  I think there are two ways to use SPDX documents. One is as a SBOM for transferring software between companies. One is as a list to manage the received software.
However, there are some items such as Security information that need to be updated regularly after the company receiving the SBOM. Are there any I/F that can tell which SPDX field should be updated regularly?
  * Kate: none defined to date, but we see the need.    General agreement on the call that figuring out how to represent this is needed.
* Joshua:  Compliance information also changes over time, on a continuous basis,  moving to supply chain partners, regulatory partners, and do this efficiently.
  * Shane: What does Audit encompass?   leads to controls.
  * Joshua: Intent is to build a compliance bill of materials,  devrisk - push out using SPDX or similar, to supply chain partners.   Really just extracting specific metadata from them,  when last updated, .... etc.   Building a template in SPDX around - policy and technical controls.

* New date for monthly meeting:  agreement to move to same time 1 week later works for most.
