# SPDX Legal Team Meeting, Feb. 8, 2024

## Attendees

- Karen Bennet
- Richard Fontana
- Sandra Frost
- Brad Goldring
- Jilayne Lovejoy
- Victor Lu
- Ria Farrell Schalnat
- Jim Vitrano
- Steve Winslow

## Agenda and Notes

- Calendar invites for meetings: 
  - Sent previously - https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-legal/message/3477 for 2nd Thursdays 2024,
    https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-legal/message/3479 for 4th Thursdays 2024
  - or you can go to https://lists.spdx.org/g/Spdx-legal/calendar and "subscribe to calendar"
    to get meetings on your calendar
  - Need to update at https://github.com/spdx/meetings/tree/main, currently showing
    2023.ics files - Steve updated at: https://github.com/spdx/meetings/pull/615

- Intros from Karen and Sandra
  - Karen is associated with IEEE and AI initiatves - works on SPDX AI profile and
    hardware profile. Believes SPDX is key to be able to document our s/w. She did
    an audit of some AI models and datasets which accumulated licenses, so now wants
    to know how to get them on the SPDX License List. Developer background
  - Sandy - works at Los Alamos Nat'l Lab. SBOM project, so wants to learn more about
    licensing. Researcher more technical side.

- How can it be easier to contribute to reviewing licenses for a decision of what to
  accept or not?
  - sending email of issues to review is helpful, can at least try to look at least
    one on that list
  - have I done the analysis properly? read the license, license acceptance principles,
    past decisions - this means that doing one can take 15' to assess the materials and
    feel like I've done the diligence. If someone else does first pass who I know is
    diligent, then easier, but then do I need to come up with something more or just +1.
    Also comes at it with a bias against adding more licenses, which may make it more
    difficult for process
  - sees email, feels guilty when see list, but it's mostly a time issue. Does make it
    easier to have email with links. 
  - Maybe also would help if we did another demo of a review during a call and have a video
    - we did demos a year ago and recorded it, but probably need to update, but demos
      we did were for making a PRs (which are now out-of-date due to tooling updates) 
    - demo of review of a license (but maybe not of the demo on a call? make it short-ish)
      or maybe record a few, so then people can go back and view
 - due to Fedora adoption, more of review time is being spent on is it a match/should there
   be markup and naming. would want to cover this in demo as well
    - Jilayne has some documentation on this, but need to update more
  - can read quickly and give take on it and good at research and consuming a lot of info,
    but doesn't feel good at detail for (i.e. is it a match) 
  - +1 on video; many models and data (in AI) are new and gets questions on what license
    to put on that code - discussed scope of SPDX
  - trouble keeping track of what is going on when @ed in issues, etc. Challenged of SPDX
    on GitHub and Fedora on GitLab; overall, doesn't seem all that inefficient giving
    volume of submissions. creating PRs seems hard
  - some of admissions that clearly don't meet license inclusion guidelines - maybe we
    need to say no more quickly. Maybe we need some FAQs related to submitting licenses
  - reading through all the comments to understand what is current state and what is still
    pending. maybe a checklist for the Fedora/used in major distro
  - demo of submission process also, including considerations
  - demo of exceptions as well, not just license

- Victor - did presentation at FINOS re: open source strategy and open source licensing.
Had a question about open source projects investment. OSI also having intersting conversation
