# SPDX Tech/Legal joint call on "namespace" policy - July 1, 2022

## Attendees
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Gary O'Neall
* John Horan
* Karsten Klein
* Paul Madick
* Steve Winslow
* Ria Schalnat
* Phil Odence
* Michael Herzog

## Notes

* Focus on policy, perhaps some process - but focused on legal team related topics for the namespace proposal
* Following the policy document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DU8oDW_DeGEkU8PQLdqp67HGwwTueCzjh02Y6OF1eQQ/edit#
* Jilayne - we may want a better name, "namespace" can be confusing - should probably tie to LicenseRef
* Steve - starting principle, over-arching statement that SPDX Project is not overseeing the content of these, not responsible for, giving any commitment about, etc. the content of the namespace themselves - AGREED (no objections)
* discussion about requirement to make license text available - what if someone doesn't want to reveal license text?
 * why use namespace if don't want to reveal license text? can still use usual LicenseRef in spec and have that exchange be confidential, spec does and has always covered this use case
 * Karsten - As a provider of license lists/namespaces having a separate solution for private license texts adds complexity to the solution
 * Proposal to use the existing document namespace / license ref solution for the private and improve documentation around that
* must be different from others, must have a contact - AGREED
* must
* The license text associated with a specific namespace LicenseRef must meet the same requirements as any LicenseRef as described in Section X of the SPDX Specification. - proposal was never intended to alter this section of the spec - AGREED
* Paul - suggested that we name the appendix 3rd party licenses and make it clear the intent
  * Gary suggested adding the specific text as a comment or pull request to the PR Alexios opened: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/681
* Ria - what happens if time goes by, contacts go stale, links are broken, etc.?
  * Paul - we are not going to look to check this, but someone may complain - and if we then try to contact that namespace contact and they don't respond, then we can remove it (if at all)
  * Linke to the DNS takedown policy: https://www.icann.org/resources/pages/policy-2012-02-25-en
  * General agreement we should have a takedown policy
* Discussion on "should the DNS namespace be part of the syntax?"
  * This would result in an advisory to any follow-up discussions led by Alexios w.r.t. the syntax
  * Poll: "should domain be included and required as a namespace?"
    * Strongly agree (0%/0)
    * Slightly agree (57%/4)
    * Slightly disagree (14%/1)
    * Strongly disagree (29%/2)
