# SPDX Tech/Legal - June 10, 2022

## Attendees
* Sebastian Crane
* Gary O'Neall
* Alexios Zavras
* Dennis Clark
* John Horan
* Jim Vitrano
* Rohan Chandrashekar
* Paul Madick
* Steve Winslow
* Jilayne Lovejoy
* Karsten Klein
* Philippe Ombredanne

## Regrets
* Ria Schalnat

## Agenda
1. Finalize on problem statements generally, focusing on one in particular
2. Next steps - who, what, when; related policy discussion

## Notes

* From Ria (not attending) - suggested refocusing on tying back to project's overall mission and vision - https://spdx.dev/about

### Problem Statements from last meeting - updated here:
1. Unable to reference or locate LicenseRef text where the reference is in one SPDX document and the text is outside that document.
  * Agreed existing spec features cover this, but needs better documentation.  Agreed to update Annex D.  No need to discuss as a problem statement – we’ll need a plan to document which we will discuss later in the agenda

2. Unable to reference or locate text for non-listed licenses when used in license expressions within source files
  * Consensus that this is better addressed by REUSE.  No need to further discuss as a problem statement.

3. Unable to reference or locate text for non-listed licenses when license expressions are used in package manager meta-data files
  * No previous consensus on this topic
  * Action was to identify at least one package manager group who would agree to implement namespaces before including this in the problem statements.  If we do not find at least one such package manager group by our meeting tomorrow, we will consider this problem out of scope for this specific namespace solution
  * Has anyone found such a package manager group? No comments
  * Does anyone think it is likely that one would?
    * Gary - from talking to Kyle, think it's unlikely for NPM as an example
    * Sebastian - expect that Linux distros won't want license namespaces, since they facilitate offline builds => need a consistent downloadable license list in advance
    * Jilayne - not speaking on behalf of Fedora community, but based on own involvement in thinking through Fedora use of SPDX IDs - thinking about package maintainers not wanting to wait on SPDX license list adding new IDs. But where e.g. Debian or Fedora is adding a license, it'll already pass the license inclusion guidelines so more process improvement on SPDX Legal team side to add more quickly, helps resolve this.
    * Philippe - consideration is to use LicenseRef to support public domain, generic proprietary license
    * Gary - license inclusion principles discussion is separate to the side
  * Decision: Out of scope for this specific discussion

4. Ability to efficiently reference common licenses which are not on the SPDX License List, including those which do not meet the SPDX license inclusion principles Reworded: Should we have a way to efficiently reference common licenses which are not on the SPDX License List, regardless of context (e.g. not specific to source code / Documents / package managers)
  * The votes for this were 9 in favor, 3 not in favor.  We’ll discuss on the call, but it looks pretty likely this will be in scope for the namespace problems to solve (I’m hoping this is a very short discussion)
  * Decision: Current discussion is particular to 2.x, will be rediscussed for 3.0; agreed to be in scope for present discussion.

5. Ability to advertise the availability of license lists other than the SPDX license list
  * There was an almost even split on this problem statement, so further discussion is warranted
  * It was pointed out during and after the meeting, that this is a bit confusing as to what we mean by “advertise”.  To help clarify, I would like to split this into 2 different problem statements:
    * Ability to promote license lists other than the SPDX license list in a similar fashion to how we promote tools that support the SPDX standard
    * Ability to locate/find license lists other than the SPDX license list


5(a): Ability to **promote** license lists other than the SPDX license list in a similar fashion to how we promote tools that support the SPDX standard
  * 2 in favor, 2 abstain, 8 against
  * Decision: Out of scope

5(b): Ability to **locate/find** license lists other than the SPDX license list
  * 7 in favor, 2 abstain, 4 against
  * For those against, strong feelings in this regard?
    * Jilayne: Depends on nature of the implementation. Organic ways to find things.
    * Sebastian: Won't be that many license lists - SPDX, ScanCode, how many others? If making it easy to create license lists, will that lead to proliferation of incomplete lists?
    * Philippe: Doubt that many people will create vanity license lists
    * Steve: Blue Oak Council license list - https://blueoakcouncil.org/list
    * Philippe: Not really an independent "vanity list" - just a grouping
    * Jilayne: Similarly, OSI and FSF lists; SPDX's goal has been to identify licenses and then others can group them as they see fit
    * Alexios: Based on question 4 above, we want to be able to reference separate licenses. This is about referencing specific _license lists_.
    * Karsten: Idea of license authorities - should SPDX be the only license authority, or should SPDX accredit other license authorities? License lists standing alone should be out of scope for the discussion
    * Gary: Bring back to specific question - think that this is not too contentious to not include _in scope for the discussion_.
  * Decision: In scope for the discussion

6. Should namespace proposal help solve the issue of capturing variants of licenses which match the same listed licenses per the matching guidelines?
  * There were 2 votes for this, 6 votes against
  * I followed up with both votes for and they are OK not including this in the namespace discussion
  * Even if we don’t solve this in the namespace proposal, it still needs to be discussed – suggest discussing it in a separate meeting – perhaps one of the legal or tech team calls
  * Decision: Postponing this; presently out of scope.


In scope, next steps: 1, 4 and 5b

## Item 1: Unable to reference or locate LicenseRef text where the reference is in one SPDX document and the text is outside that document.
  * Who: Steve to draft
  * What: PR - maybe just Annex D or maybe broader re: linking documents; Steve to consider and draft something for review

## Item 4: Should we have a way to efficiently reference common licenses which are not on the SPDX License List, regardless of context (e.g. not specific to source code / Documents / package managers)

## Item 5(b): Ability to **locate/find** license lists other than the SPDX license list

* Proposal to introduce a "license namespace", with (1) a syntax and (2) a way to register the namespace
* Alternatives that will still solve 4 and 5(b)?
  * Sebastian: still license namespaces, but idea of "special partners license authorities" that meet a certain standard
* Policy considerations - focus by legal team
* Syntax - focus by tech team
* Any discussions will still be subject to cross-team discussion

## policies
Below is a list of policy considerations for when/how we should use “license namespaces”:

Where on the spectrum of "minimal oversight" to "strong oversight" should SPDX set up policies for this?

Two areas for policies:
1. Policies for a namespace itself
  a. Licenses namespaces MUST HAVE a contact (not discussed)
2. Policies for licenses within that namespace

Topics for discussion (not decided):
Licenses submitted for external namespaces MUST NOT match the text of existing SPDX listed licenses (at the time of submittal)
Licenses submitted SHOULD NOT meet the license inclusion guidelines (otherwise – they should be submitted to be included on the license list)
Licenses within the namespaces MUST BE maintained
Licenses within the namespace MUST BE publicly accessible

* Steve: There is a range of high involvement from the SPDX community in the namespaces to a minimal involvement.  We should have a minimal registration requirements for the namespaces, minimal oversight
* Sebastian - should focus on those who have expressed interest - Philippe and Karsten expressed interest in Scancode license list, but also happy to faciliate other use cases in a maybe different way
* Steve Different groups have expressed interest beyond Scancode
* Alexios - external list, proprietary license (or those that don't fit SPDX inclusion licnese guidelines generally), which was original interest from Mark who proposed this initially and Alexios
Gary -  Agree with Steve's opinion on minimal involvement
Jilayne - concern of people bypassing SPDX License List and not submitted license that shoudl be submitted, but if we have a policy of "probalby not included in SPDX License List" - then that helps as per Marks' original idea.  Also need to take into account the work involved.  It could be significant, certainly not minimal - but probably benefits to having more "control" rather than completely hands-off, just need to be realistic about effort and have someone willing to do that
* Karsten - license authorities should be good SPDX citizens.  Should have the ability to revoke if they don't behave.  Overlap of licenses - should be possible but we should be able to harmonize.
* Steve - Agree that there would be some overlap of licenses.  Disagree with the statement that the license authorities "need to behave".  Not needed if we only
* Paul - think that a lightweight policy works better; if someone wants to push for heavier, perhaps they can put together a proposal before the next meeting

Perhaps - three policy proposals - one light, one middle and one heavy

Follow-up call next week, same time same place

* Gary will send out a Google Document with the policy proposals
  * Everyone on the call should review and edit the doc before next week's call
