Jan. 31, 2017

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Bill Schineller
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Thomas Steenbergen

## Topics

  - SPDX Tools Jena version upgrade
  - Google Summer of Code
  - Questions from Thomas on SPDX Spec and implementation

## SPDX Tools Jena version upgrade

  - Yev submitted a pull request which upgrades the Jena version
  - The upgrade has a dependency on Java 8
  - Agreed to create a branch “Java6Support” prior to merging the pull
    request
  - Gary to create the branch
  - Yev will merge in the branch after verifying the Java version in the
    POM file

## Google Summer of Code

  - Applications need to be in by Jan. 9
  - Submittal is nearly ready (just need to upload the logo)
  - Need a second administrator
      - Waiting for a response from Philippe
      - Jack agreed to co-sponsor if we don’t hear back by Thursday
  - Discussed project ideas
      - Leverage ideas from last year at
        <http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/Ideas_List>
      - Some of the same library migrations apply
      - Should add Git integration, but the project may need to be
        broken up into sub-projects. We’ll have a meeting on the topic
        at the leadership summit
      - We should add online tools as a project idea (Gary)
      - Jack suggested an attribution document generator tool (Gary will
        add)
      - Build integration projects such as Gradle (could leverage the
        Maven integration)
      - Thomas had some build and package manager related projects that
        may be appropriate for GSoC (Thomas will follow up and add to
        the project list wiki)

## Questions and Clarifications from Thomas

Q1: I am correct to say “\#” is the comment statement in tag-value
format and I use it after a tag statement

It is invalid is to put a comment statement in SPDX tag-value behind
value. It has to be on a separate line.

Example:

LicenseConcluded: Apache-2.0 \#INVALID

1.  VALID

LicenseConcluded: Apache-2.0

Q2: If a big source file has license texts at line 3, 400 and 600 do one
put in in one FileNotice within SPDX-File or into multiple SPDX-Files?

Combining all license text in a FileNotice within a SPDX-File is OK if
it’s all of the different licensed code always below to the package. If
the license statements come from code copied from other packages one
should use SPDX-Snippet

@HERE we use “…” as delimiter to indicate multiple lines are present in
the file between license texts Example:

FileNotice:<text>

BSD-3-Clause full license text

…

Happy bunny full license text </text>

Q3: How would you encode within the SPDX-File’s FileNotice scanner line
number findings?

Example:

FileNotice: <text> { BSD-3-Clause full license text} \<= line 250 – 350
… {GPL-2.0 full license text } \<= line 942 - 980 </text>

Solutions:

1\. Use a comment statement

1.  BSD-3-Clause lines 250 – 350, GPL-2.0 line 942 - 980

FileNotice: <text> { BSD-3-Clause full license text} … { GPL-2.0 full
license text} … </text>

2\. Use LicenseComments

FileNotice: <text> { BSD-3-Clause full license text} … { GPL-2.0 full
license text} … </text>LicenseComments: <text>BSD-3-Clause lines 250 –
350, GPL-2.0 line 942 - 980</text> 3. @Yev Introduce a new relationship
within SPDX so we can capture this in a relation between SPDX-File and
SPDX-Package

Q4: Which of the below statement is correct. I think B is correct per
the spec.

Answer: B is correct but commonly tools will support/implement A. This
is a bug in the tooling. @Thomas: Our experience is that most novice
SPDX users think A is correct for simplicity reasons but form spec point
of view B makes sense.

A)

LicenseConcluded: (LicenseRef-FSF-MIT AND GPL-2.0+ WITH
Autoconf-exception-2.0) LicenseInfoInFile: LicenseRef-FSF-MIT
LicenseInfoInFile: GPL-2.0+ WITH Autoconf-exception-2.0

Or

B)

LicenseConcluded: (LicenseRef-FSF-MIT AND GPL-2.0+ WITH
Autoconf-exception-2.0) LicenseInfoInFile: LicenseRef-FSF-MIT
LicenseInfoInFile: GPL-2.0+

Q5: Can one do custom license exceptions for LicenseRefs in SPDX?

Answer: Use LicenseRef e.g. LicenseRef-MIT-WITH-Happy-Bunny

Q6: What are your ideas on modeling package managers in SPDX? The
current way we do it is to create a SPDX-FILE on the pom.xml and then
use ExternalDocumentRef and Relationship tags to link to separate SPDX
files for each dependency. PackageLicenseConcluded are per package.

Answer: @Gary: This is how I am currently doing it. @Thomas to provide
some example for Wiki for various languages. Contact Jack Manbeck to get
Wiki access.

Q7: Is it Ok to use “cvs” within PackageDownloadLocation? e.g. Is it Ok
to extend <vcs_tool> with other version control systems other than the
ones listed in
<https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/reference/pip_install.html#vcs-support>?

Answer: @Gary: Yes this is the correct way. We should look into adding
cvs to the spec. TODO: Follow-up with Bill

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
