June 13, 2017

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Thomas Steenberg
  - Kate Stewart
  - Anna Buhman
  - Krys Nuvadga
  - Alexios Zavras
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Uday Korlimarla

## Spec Git Repository

  - <https://github.com/tsteenbe/spdx-spec>
  - Nearly complete
  - Releases fixed
  - History is in sync with the SPDX release dates
  - Need to add contributing.md
  - Worked needed for TravisCI

## Next Release Project

  - see <https://github.com/tsteenbe/spdx-spec>
  - Discussion on optional fields
      - Agree to make snippet byte range optional
      - PackageLicenseDeclared
          - Semantics different from other fields
      - VerificationCode
          - Discussed public repositories having a checksum already

^^^ Discussed whether required since file checksums are in the SPDX
document – although there is also a proposal to not include all files in
the SPDX document

  -   - Tabled the discussion for now

  -   - Document namespace – needed for external document references.
          - Some confusion on how to apply – seems arbitrary
          - Only requirement is that it is unique
          - Agree to update the documentation and add best practices to
            describe this field more clearly
      - Document name
          - Required for the RDF model
          - Could provide some best practices and/or better
            documentation
          - Proposal to have a default of “Document” since we have a
            namespace

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
