Jan. 10, 2017

## Attendees

  - Gary O’Neall
  - Yev Bronshteyn
  - Kate Stewart
  - Thomas Steenbergen
  - Mark Gisi
  - Matt
  - Jack Manbeck
  - Mark Baushke

## Meeting time

  - Agreed to move up 2 hours – 16:00 GMT, 8AM Pacific, 10AM Central,
    11AM Eastern

## Attribution documentation

  - Yev has a prototype complete, but doesn’t follow the exact algorithm
    in the document, but can be used as an example:
    <https://bitbucket.org/yevster/spudnotes>
  - Next week, we’ll pick up the discussion on updating the
    documentation

## Face to Face Meeting Discussion

  - Room available after keynote until end of day (total 7 hours
    including lunch)
      - Shared with legal and business teams
  - Proposed Agenda
      - 10-11 Matt presenting UNO results (joint tech, business, legal)
        – Matt has 6-8 slides on interviews with SPDX users, will
        likely generate discussions on ways to help adoption, issues,
        solutions
  - 11-11:30 License expression (joint tech, legal) – List of problems
    (not solving)
  - 11:30-12:00 (joint tech, legal) XML tooling for license list –
    Review plan, make sure we’re in sync on the next steps
  - 12:00-1:00 Lunch
  - 1:00-2:00 File formats discussion (tech) – Yev will provide some
    examples of different formats based on an updated set of SPDX tools
    (JSON, TURTLE, …). We can go over different formats, list possible
    solutions. There will be a separate (later) discussion to get
    closure on questions regarding single format, which format
  - 2:00-3:00 Git plugin – Discuss scope, which existing tools to
    leverage and plan
  - 3:00-4:00 Wiki cleanup – Kate, Jack and Gary to discuss a plan –
    everyone welcome to join
  - 4:00-6:00 Legal team
  - Other Meetings while we are there:
      - Java Tooling Plans – Yev, Gary and anyone else interested to
        sync up on the SPDX Tools Java Version
  - Kate will ask for a Polycom, Jack will setup a conference number
  - Gary and/or Kate will sync up with the legal team on the agenda
  - Attendees: Gary, Matt, Jack, Kate, Yev, Georg (UNO), Mark Gisi, Mark
    B. will see if someone from Juniper can attend (interested in file
    formats and distribution attributions)

## Future Discussions

  - File formats for distribution artifacts – use of packages, other
    ideas – Thomas and Mark B. are interested following up as well as
    others on the call
  - Other attribution requirements (such as displaying in a license GUI)

[Minutes](Category:Technical "wikilink")
[Category:Minutes](Category:Minutes "wikilink")
